We fell because of the tariffs. We had
this big sell-off and we've now
recovered.
>> I think this momentum is real.
>> This is a interesting inflection point.
There's potential for upside. This is
not a particularly screamingly broad
rally.
>> I think the markets are starting to
conclude that you know what, uncertainty
is going to be with us here for a while.
Let's move on with our businesses. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, expectations are skyhigh.
The Ukrainian leader arriving in
Washington for talks with President
Trump as economists look to Jackson Hole
for chairp rate cuts. Investors look to
retail earnings to gauge the health of
the US consumer. We're facing down a
week full of event risk.
>> Yeah, we've got geopolitics, we've got
monetary policy, and of course, we've
got corporate profitability all on uh on
deck this week as we try to understand
what the framework is going into the
remainder of the year with stocks at
record highs with corporate bond spreads
at record lowest rates since uh 1998. A
key question is going to be what get
comes out of Washington DC today and
then on Friday, what does Jay Powell
signal in terms of whether he's going to
push back against rate cut expectations
or whether he'll lean in and try to gain
Curry or Curry favor with the president?
>> Well, let's start with Washington DC in
the main event later on this afternoon.
Just how high is the bar? European gas
prices falling to fresh lows for 2025.
I'd say that bar is pretty high.
>> Well, pretty much also as well when it
comes to secondary sanctions, we are not
seeing them just yet. When the president
said, "We're going to see severe
consequences if there's no sessation of
hostilities." Well, we don't have a
ceasefire and there's no severe
consequences. When it comes to this
meeting, the president has made it
clear. It is now up to President
Zilinsky to get it done. Two big things
on the table. Security guarantees. This
is the conversation Zilinsky wanted to
have 6 months ago during that Oval
Office blow up and as well as what does
it mean for territorial swaps. What
exactly can Womir Zalinsky accept and
then go back to Ukraine and say that
this is palatable for his people? the
president of the United States putting
some additional pre pressure on the
Ukrainian leader ahead of this meeting
with the European allies joining him
alongside the president.
>> Yeah, to me I think who's going to be in
the room is actually really important
when you take a look at the roster of
European leaders who are lining up who
have canceled their schedules cleared
the decks to be there. Georgia Maloney,
uh you've got Friedrich Mertz, Emanuel
Mcron, Alexander Stubs, Mark Ruta,
Ursula Vander Lion, they all are
coalesing in Washington DC because they
understand how pivotal this is and that
Ukraine is being asked to give up land
in response for a peace deal without
some sort of ceasefire. The lack of I
don't want to say trust, but the trying
to fortify uh Vladimir Zilinski is quite
clear in terms of the European message.
At the same time, if you're going to
talk about security guarantees and a
NATOike security guarantee for Ukraine,
you have to have the Europeans in the
room. They have to be part of this
conversation because they're going to be
the ones likely that have to send boots
on the ground.
>> Those meetings take place a little bit
later on this afternoon. So far this
morning, equities doing okay, just
slightly negative. We're down a tenth of
1% on the S&P. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Steve Chevron of
Federated following a second straight
winning week for stocks. Kelly Greco of
the Stimson Center as Zilinsky heads to
the White House and Neil Dutter of
Renmack looking ahead to Chair Pal in
Jackson Hole. We begin this hour with
stock steady. Steve chevron of federated
Hermes writing, "We continue to see an
economic acceleration. We expect that
the Fed will typically look in the
rearview mirror and cut in September."
Steve joins us now for more. Steve, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you, sir. Equities just
off alltime highs. Investment grade
credit spreads going down towards the
tightest levels we've seen so far this
turn of this century. I want to
understand from you whether that is
justified or not.
>> I think it is. I I think there so we
have a non-conensus view, right? The
consensus view out there is that the
economy has been slowing and is
continuing to slow or decelerate. I I
think that's I think that's an artifact
of misreading the data. And I think
what's what's coming through especially
post the jobs revision data is that you
actually had a kind of real slowdown in
that April May period after liberation
day where everything ground to a halt
and you're starting to come out. You're
starting to see the jobs numbers even
though it was only 75,000 or 73 that was
ahead of the 14 and 19 the prior two
months. ADP has that same pattern.
Unemployment claims have that same
pattern. Confidence data has that same
pattern. Earnings data has that same
pattern. And so I think the actual story
here and if you look at the character of
the market, it's acting early cyish.
It's kind of rates down, cuts coming,
credit spreads improve any further.
They're about as tight as can be. And
economic data that's starting to
accelerate, including some of the
inflation data, which hasn't really been
about goods prices or tariff goods, but
it's been about service prices starting
to firm again. So I think the Fed should
cut, but I think they're going to cut
for the wrong reason.
>> They're going to reacelerate the
economy.
>> Yeah. going to layer on top rate cuts.
Where do you want to be if you truly
believe this is early cycle? Well,
you've got to look where there's value
and where you're starting to see
positive price movement despite, you
know, names that have really
underperformed. You see that in the
early cyclicals. You see it in places
like home builders. You see it in places
like trucking and shipping. Um, now this
will all depend on what Jerome Pal does
later this week. If he endorses the cut,
then I think that early cyclical trade
will continue and and we don't have the
normal seasonal weakness. If he comes
out hawkish, then I think you'll see a
step back and you'll revert back into
the growth and defensive names.
>> So basically, this is a market that's
counting on rate cuts to reacelerate any
kind of growth and signaling, at least
when you look at market valuations, that
there isn't necessarily a need for rate
cuts. I mean, this is sort of the
paradox that a lot of people are looking
at. How can you justify the need for
rate cuts when you have markets that are
pricing in a reaceleration early cycle
growth uh at a time where inflation's
not down to 2%.
>> So I think it would depend on where
you're starting with rates. If we were
at a neutral rate stance, if we were
somewhere around what the neutral kind
of level of rates would be, then yeah,
talking about a cut here makes no sense.
I think the reason why you need a cut
and I think the Fed does need to ease is
because what you've got is an economy
that's very strong around tech and tech
capex. But if you look at the rate
sensitive parts of the economy, if you
look at the housing sector, if you look
at autos, if you look at anything that's
not on that tech capback story, there's
some struggles there. There's some pain
that are logical given how far and how
significantly the Fed raised rates. You
don't want to have a scenario where tech
and tech capex slows down and you can't
hand the baton off to that other part of
the economy that's struggling. And so
the issue isn't so much that the economy
can't reacelerate or that there's some
immediate need of rate cuts. What it is
is that if you keep rates this
restrictive for longer and you punish
those parts of the economy so severely,
you won't be able to hand off that
baton. So, let's say we get the 100
basis points of rate cuts that a lot of
people are pricing in from now until the
end of next year and you have a Fed that
does open up the door to potentially
easing policy even with inflation uh
sort of above their ultimate goal. Do
you start to get worried about a bubble?
And I know that this is probably going
to trigger you, but we're looking at
gauges.
>> That's a strong word.
>> Well, I mean, I know that you're
positive, but like, you know, we're
looking at gauges, the lowest since
1998, resonance of the 2000's.com
bubble. I mean, at what point do you
start to worry about that? I would start
to worry about that when you see
valuations on the non-mag 7 get out of
control. Right? So MAG7 has traded
between 25 and 30 times. I mean Apple
has more cash than Great Britain.
They're not going to trade a 15 times
multiple. Okay? Like that deserves a
little bit of a premium. Um when you
look at the rest of the market, X-MAG 7
is trading about 18 times which is about
average. And that's where we see that
opportunity. That's where we see that
broadening out. So, if we were sitting
here and the non-mag 7 were trading at
22 or 23 times, then yeah, that that's
that's really rich. But when I look at
despite being at all-time highs, 493 of
the 500 stocks trading at an average
multiple, I feel like that's okay.
>> You said you'd be a buyer of weakness if
it materializes.
>> Yeah.
>> Weakness where?
>> Well, August, September tend to be
tricky just seasonally. Um if you saw a
scenario where let's say chair pal was a
little bit more hawkish than expected
and you saw some rollover in those
cyclicals that's where we would be
buyers. So small caps the kind of
cyclical some of the rate sensitive
dividend payers because again
you're going to have to cut. You're
moving in that direction. The committee
is moving in that direction. The market
is moving in that direction. And if
there was weakness because of a
temporary setback because of comments
over the next couple of weeks, I I'd be
inclined to buy that weakness.
>> Is this time around even more tricky for
August, September? You have geopolitical
risk thrown into the mix.
>> I don't look I I don't know how much
geopolitical risk offers downside risk
here. Um I I think look, if we come out
of the next few weeks and we have some
resolution to Russia, Ukraine. I think
that's a market positive for sentiment.
I think it's certainly potentially lower
energy prices. I think no matter what
happens, you're going to want to
continue to be on this defense spending
trend, which has been a big one in the
market. I just don't know if we don't
come out of this with a deal. I don't
know that that's really what's driving
markets higher. I think the Fed has more
of an opportunity to disappoint the
markets than geopolitics right now.
>> Can we finish on valuations? You touched
on them. The S&P 500 has evolved so much
over the last several decades. What is
the appropriate benchmark for valuations
now on the S&P? Yeah. So averages are
very dangerous because again if I go
back where most of that average was
developed you had a much higher weight
in manufacturing. You had no
subscriptionbased models. I like to joke
around you know when I was a kid if
things were tight my father maybe didn't
take us to the movies. If things are
tight now I'd have to be under dire
financial straits to figure out what
card I use for Netflix and cancel it.
Right. That that deserves also a
premium. And then the Mag 7. So Mag 7
are about a third of the market. They
trade between 25 and 30 times. If you
put a midcycle on that of 27 and a half
and assume an 18 times multiple for
everything else, that gets you to an S&P
at 21 a.5, which is where we think
you're about fair. 21 a 12 times. That's
very different from the past. Um, but if
you've constantly not owned this market
over the last couple years because you
thought it was too expensive, you've
left a lot of money on the table.
>> That phrase we hear a lot on this
program, price for perfection. Just to
wrap it up, you'd push back against
that, wouldn't you? I I would because
again you have large swaths of the
market whether it's the financials
whether it's some of the more cyclical
parts of the market even some of the
dividend specific parts of the market
that just are trading at you know best
average multiples um they're not cheap u
but they're certainly not overly
stretched and that's where we see the
best opportunity
>> Steve appreciate your time John
>> good luck for the rest of the week thank
you sir Steve Chevron there of federated
this is a rich market in the minds of
many but justified in the minds of Steve
>> what Steve just said really highlights
why it's so difficult to understand how
to interpret the Home Depot and the
Target and the Walmart results later
this week. Is this going to be a gauge
of the broader economy or do we hear
what Steve was just saying which is
essentially these companies are not the
economy? They have models that are
incredibly strong and very profitable
and so all of a sudden are you looking
at just the gains of the big and the
gains of the strong, not necessarily the
gains of an overall economy.
>> Big week for retailers. Home Depot
tomorrow reporting earnings. The day
after that we'll hear from Target. On
Thursday we'll hear from Walmart.
Equities at the moment slightly softer
but very close to all-time highs on the
S&P with an update on stories elsewhere
and worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here an island. Hey Yahara.
>> Good morning John. President Trump will
host Ukrainian President Zalinski and
European allies in DC today to set out
terms for a potential peace deal with
Russia with the focus on territorial
concessions and ke seeking security
guarantees. This after President Trump
and Putin met in Alaska with little
revealed in what was discussed.
Meanwhile, Hurricane Aaron has
reintensified into a category 4 storm
after moving past Puerto Rico. Aaron's
top winds strengthened to 130 mph. And
according to the National Hurricane
Center, additional instant in
intensification is forecast over the
next 12 hours. The storm is expected to
pass between North Carolina's Outer
Banks and Bermuda later this week.
Meanwhile, shares of Nova Nordisk are
rising 2.7% after US regulators gave the
green light for its blockbuster weight
loss drug WGOI to also treat a serious a
serious liver disease. The FDA approved
it for MASH, adding to the list of
conditions for which the blockbuster
therapy is now approved. Analysts say
the move could help turn momentum around
for NOVO after a rocky start to the
year. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, Zilinski at the White House.
>> I believe we had a very productive
meeting. There were many, many points
that we agreed on. I would say a couple
of big ones that we haven't quite gotten
there. So, uh, there's no deal until
there's a deal.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Kelly Grio of the Stimson Center
from New York City this morning. Good
morning,
[Music]
What a week coming up. Absolutely
stacked with retail earnings. It kicks
off tomorrow with Home Depot, then on to
Target, then on to Walmart. We end the
week with a big one though. Chairman
Powell in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. looking
for guidance on interest rate cuts. Will
he tee up September or not?
>> Well, what is the incentive to really
commit at a time where the data is
sending conflicting messages? How does
he do this in a way that doesn't seem
utterly political to try to avoid the
spotlight at a time where the Fed is
likely going to cut rates anyway? And
that's the reason why a number of people
are tempering expectations. I want to
understand the framework. Are they going
to talk about uh targeting averages or
maybe a higher inflation rate than they
have in the past? Some two-way risk
going into Friday with Chairman Pal and
Jackson Hall, Wyoming. Equity futures
right now in the S&P negative by just a
tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ. A similar
move in the bond market. The 2-year bond
yield this morning, down a single basis
point, the 2-year 374. Under
surveillance this morning, Zilinski at
the White House.
>> I believe we had a very productive
meeting. There were many, many points
that we agreed on. I would say a couple
of big ones that we haven't quite gotten
there. So, uh, there's no deal until
there's a deal.
>> We agreed to, um, uh, robust, uh,
security guarantees that I would
describe as gamechanging.
>> This is not our war. We are happen to be
in the role of the only country in the
world with the only leader in the world
that can actually bring Putin to a table
to even discuss these things. So, here's
the latest this morning. Ukrainian
President Zilinski and his European
allies arriving in Washington for
highstakes talks with President Donald
Trump. Trump looking for a quick peace
deal, saying Zilinski can quote end the
war with Russia almost immediately.
Bloomberg's Ali Krook joins us now for
more. Ollie, welcome to the program. How
much pressure is on the Ukrainian leader
today?
There's a tremendous amount of it. It's
been ratcheted up really overnight by
President Trump who, as you mentioned,
has said that basically Zilinski can end
the war um within the next sort of 24
hours, within the next week, squarely
putting the ball in his court. The
question is, how does Trump feel about
the situation right now? he has been
sort of softening his toe tone towards
Zilinsky. Certainly a different kind of
conversation than we had six months ago.
But I think the most significant thing,
John, to come out of the last um you
know 48 hours since that meeting between
Trump and Putin is that the United
States is talking explicitly now about
article 5 style guarantees for Ukraine.
I.e. that the United States potentially
if there is a deal struck between Russia
and Ukraine would come to the military
aid actively of Ukraine if its
sovereignty were imposed upon again by
the Russians after such a deal. That is
something that has not been explicitly
discussed by the United States. What I
also think is interesting, John, is that
they talk about this as a sort of
breakthrough from this conversation with
Putin and Trump, but this is a guarantee
that can be given unilaterally by the
United States. It's something the United
States could have given weeks and months
ago. It's something that the Europeans
and the Ukrainians have been calling for
for some time, but it is now apparently
openly on the table. I also think it's
interesting now that after those talks
that the Europeans want to take full
advantage of this momentum, full
advantage of the fact that Trump is
putting this plan forward and saying,
"Listen, we take this seriously. We are
all coming to Washington DC." When you
when you say jump, we say how high and
we want to demonstrate our willingness
to get this through. Their hope is that
Putin is not being serious about this
and that he will prove himself to be the
obstacle to any kind of lasting peace
and any kind of deal. But that is what
the Europeans need to prove and that is
what Zilinsky intends to prove. Ollie
Cro with the latest out of Europe.
Ollie, thank you. Kelly Grio of the
Stimson Center writing the following.
Today's meeting will test Zinsk's
ability to hold the line and to keep
Ukraine's fate from being decided
without him. Kelly joins us now for
more. Kelly, welcome to the program. How
do we avoid a late February scenario?
How do we avoid a repeat of that?
Yes, I mean this has to be one of
Zalinsky and the Europe's main concerns
is that we'll see a repeat of this uh
what happened in February. You know, I
think we're in a different place uh than
we were in February. I think Zalinsky is
much smarter uh to not fall into sort of
the traps that he did in February. And
of course, the Europeans are going to be
there to act as a buffer.
>> Kelly, what do you know about this
security guarantee? They're discussing
the NATO article 5 like guarantee, but
not NATO.
>> Yeah. So, you know, this is very vague.
That's one of the things I would say
about this summit. It was ended in sort
of a cloud of uncertainty. And I I see
two possibilities for these article 5
guarantees. Uh one is that uh you know
Putin has actually accepted that Europe
and the United States can provide some
kind of article 5 guarantee uh that if
Russia were to attack again that they
would be obliged to respond uh including
militarily to to an invasion. I think
that's unlikely. Uh but the second
possibility would be that it's actually
something more like there were
negotiations in Eastbol shortly after
the war started and there was an article
5 type guarantee um as part of those
negotiations that Russia had accepted
and essentially all of the parties um
the United States, the Europeans and
Russia itself would guarantee Ukraine's
security. um if one of them attacks the
others would respond and I think that
may be that we're returning to the
Eastbol Eastnbul formula of course we
don't really know
>> Kelly didn't they already make this
agreement in 1994 what's so different
from this than the Budapest memorandum
>> yes so it is different from from 1994
when that was a security assurance um
the states uh assured Ukraine the
parties to it including Russia that they
would not attack of course UK uh Russia
is not uh abided by those terms. Uh but
there was no obligation in any of the
language to say that if Ukraine was in
fact attacked, others needed to provide
assistance to support their defense and
a security guarantee does that. It
actually says that there will be
assistance provided in the event of an
attack.
>> The perception after the meeting in
Alaska between Vladimir Putin and uh
President Trump was that this was a PR
victory for Vladimir Putin. Do you think
that there is anything that could happen
today in this meeting with European
leaders in Vimir Zalinski that could
reverse that that could change that
perception and put a new spin on exactly
how this carries out over the remainder
remaining weeks and months ahead?
>> Yeah, I mean it's certainly true that
for Putin this was a PR victory you know
before the talks even started just being
able to arrive on US soil uh no longer
being you know this isolated pariah uh
but sort of returning to being a states
statesman. I will say though today I
think the stakes for Zalinsky and and
Europe are much higher than even you
know propaganda victories and PR
victories. You know if I'm Zilinsky I'm
arriving in DC not for this photo op but
because I want to be able to shape the
actual peace process. I think we're now
in the stage where this is really
shuttled diplomacy. And so it's really
up to Zilinsky to really walk that
needle of being able to assert and
protect Ukrainian interests, but also
making sure that he is able to keep
Trump aligned with him uh to be able to
represent Ukrainian interests with
Russia. How much of a sense do you have
about Europeans uh willingness to really
commit whether it's money, whether it's
troops, whether it's their own
guarantees behind any kind of peace
agreement between Ukraine and Russia
because that's been something that's
been sort of contentious and contended
between the US and Europe.
Yes, I'm so glad you brought that up
because I think this is something that
is often uh overlooked uh which is that,
you know, Europe talks a lot about
wanting to provide some kind of security
guarantee, but they're sparse on the
details of what they're actually willing
to provide in very concrete terms and
how they're going to make that credible.
Um, and they face two challenges in this
regard. One is that the, you know,
decades of low defense spending mean
that their military capabilities are
more limited, particularly to be able to
provide for their own security as well
as potentially for Ukraine's. And then
the second is that this war's gone on
for three and a half years, and the
Europeans have not been willing to
intervene directly because they don't
believe that they have uh sufficient
interest to justify that level of
commitment. So, how do you make a
commitment to potentially enter a new
war should Russia attack credible when
you've already demonstrated that you
weren't willing to fight a war over
Ukraine? Those are both really cha
challenges for Europe.
>> Kelly Steve Wickoff said that important
discussion will need to be had regarding
DA. What can Zalinski accept today?
>> Yes. So, this is, you know, this is the
area where it's going to be the hardest
for Ukraine. I think these article 5
guarantees are meant to be a sweetener.
Uh and the reality is that there's going
to be have to be some level of
territorial concessions if we're going
to get to a peace deal. Uh and it's
clear that Putin is focused on Donesk in
particular. Um it you know to try to
capture the rest of Donbos um Lhansk and
Daesk make up Donbos. He has Lhance um
under Russian control at the moment or
occupation and he has about 87% of
Adonbas is under Russian occupation and
he wants the rest of it and so I think
you know part of for for for uh Zalinsky
is he has to decide you know is it
better to do this at a negotiating table
or to continue to fight and it looks
like if they continue to fight the
Russians will slowly and painfully be
able to capture the rest of Donasque and
so is it better to have options at the
negotiating ating table so you can get
some other kinds of concessions whether
it's other Ukrainian territory or also
these kinds of security guarantees.
>> Kelly, just quickly, it might sound like
a silly question, but why are we okay
with article 5 style guarantees but not
NATO membership?
>> Yes, I mean it's clear that NATO
membership is a red line for the
Russians. Uh they do not want NATO
membership. But this is also why I'm
skeptical that the Russians are going to
be acceptable with some idea of American
or European forces even in limited
numbers on Ukrainian soil to try to make
that kind of article 5 guarantee
credible.
>> Kelly, I appreciate your reaction to
things. Thank you, Kelly Grio of the
Stimson Center. I think a lot of people
have got that question this morning.
>> I think if it's article 5, you're
expecting troops on the ground to be
there, a presence in Ukraine. If it's
article 5 like I think it's just a
commitment verbally to be there if there
was going to be another incursion. The
problem right now is all of this is very
cloudy and murky. These are just this is
a lot of rhetoric that's being tossed
out. Contours of a plan is what I
believe Secretary Rubio called it over
the weekend. We need a lot more details
to understand this.
>> I think most people are hoping we can
avoid a repeat of the situation that
took place in late February in the Oval
Office. Up next on the program, we'll
catch up with Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy saying Geopolitics is in the
economic driver's seat. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers as
Soho House looks to go private. That
stock is up by 16%. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Two weeks of gains on the S&P 500, a
little bit softer on Friday. Likewise,
again this morning to kick off the
trading week. We're down just.15% on the
S&P, negative0.16
on the NASDAQ 100. With 3 hours until
the opening power, let's get you some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burger for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Soho House confirming a Wall
Street Journal report about 30 minutes
ago that they will indeed be going
private. The current shareholders will
be taking the company private at $9 a
share. We're not quite at the deal price
yet, but shares are still up 15.5% as a
company that has languished as a public
company IPOed at $14, falling 45%
through to today. It's a big day for
take privates in general. Day force
those shares up 24%. The HR software
group Tom Bravo telling uh uh reportedly
Bloomberg sources telling Bloomberg that
Tom Bravo will be taking Dayforce
public. This is another company that has
struggled. It's down about 60% since the
highs of 2021. Finally, Nova Notice ADRs
in the US. Those are also rallying some
5 and a half% this morning. Uh they're
getting approval for treating a rare
form of a liver disease for Wiggoi. That
means that they have beat out their
competition Lily and bringing that drug
to the market for specifically this use
of treatment. Beimo writing that this
will help with much needed momentum
after a tough start to the year for Nova
Nordis. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. Just on Soho House, isn't
there some natural tension between a
private members club being a public
company?
>> I think
>> isn't there just some natural tension
there?
>> You could argue that this is the case
for a private asset manager that also
goes public, which has been something
that we have seen repeatedly. But yes, I
would guess that that would be something
sort of odd because you're having to
reveal the crown jewels of the privacy
to the public in order to remain public.
So you would think that they'd want to
keep them private. It's the thirst for
growth that I think is where the
ultimate contradiction is between say
luxury, privacy, and exclusivity. Then
going public and there's this massive
push for growth. Who don't you know
that's got a Soho House membership. You
know, I remember like 20 years ago Soho
House was like kind of cool and if
someone had a membership, it was like
that was very exclusive. Go down there
now. It's like 25year-old Instagram
influences. Anyone and everyone who can
get a membership to Soho House. I think
it was Groucho Marks who said, "I don't
want to be part of any kind of club that
actually would take me." And there was
something that is true about that with
some of these private clubs that have to
retain their cache by remaining
exclusive but kind of are, you know,
excited about the money. A lot of
complaints you could see on Twitter with
this story that they've pretty much just
let everyone that wants to come in and
that basically the standards have
dropped in terms of what they're able to
provide because they're just overrun
with a ton of people.
>> Total sellouts. Let's see if it changes.
It's brutal, right?
>> You want to be part of it? Do you want
to join the Soho club? Let's see if it
changes. Would you want to join?
>> That is not exclusive enough for me.
>> Oh, yeah. I'm sorry.
>> You know that.
>> Okay. How many people need to be in your
club?
>> It's like the Delta Airlines lounge of
members clubs now.
>> But Delta one,
>> I'm just going to keep on digging. I'm
absolutely digging.
>> On our ra this morning, Ukrainian
President Vladimir Zilinski and several
European leaders are meeting President
Trump at the White House following his
talks with Russian President Vladimir
Putin in Alaska over the weekend.
>> So, this is going to be a really high
stakes meeting for President Zilinski.
He needs to decide what he's willing to
accept in terms of what Putin laid out
on Friday to the president. What we
assume because I was there and they
didn't really give a tremendous amount
of details. The statements that came out
of Putin and Trump were pretty much
pre-written and they didn't take a
single question from the press. On the
other half of that, if Zalinski is able
to get to some sort of agreement with
the president, then then they can go
back to the Russians on territory that
the Russians are able to accept, is a
security guarantees going to be enough?
And what does that exactly look like?
Which is why it's interesting the
Europeans are in the room.
>> To me, what's most interesting is
exactly that. How many Europeans are in
the room and the fact that they all got
on their private jets and otherwise and
flew to Washington in short notice.
Again, let's just read the list.
Georgia, sorry,
>> Georgia Maloney, Friedick Mertz, Emanuel
Mcronone, Alexander Stubs, his bestie
who plays golf, you Mark Rut, who has uh
been running NATO, but also has a
positive history with President Trump.
This to me indicates a level of unity in
Europe that is very unusual and I do
wonder whether they're going to be
presenting some sort of unified proposal
to Trump to try to uh edify Ukraine's
point.
>> I think there's been this idea in the
press that they're there because
President Zilinsky might get bullied.
What happened 6 months ago, that blow up
in the Oval Office. But between February
and now, there have been so many
meetings between Trump and Zilinsky, so
many phone calls, a lot more than
there's been obviously between Trump and
President Putin. The Europeans have to
be in the room to ride security
guarantees, they need to be there. And
if things really go bad and you have to
have these quote severe consequences,
what did the secretary say to us? The
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson. He said
when it comes to secondary tariffs to go
after Russia and how they fund this war
about their crude to China, well the
Europeans need to be on board for that.
And right now they're not. And what do
they continuously do? They are still
importing Russian commodities. They are
still taking in Russian gas. And
actually it's gone up. So they need to
be in the room if they want to be able
to settle this war on their continent.
>> Look out for the outcome of these
meetings later on this afternoon. Look
out for the outcome of the Federal
Reserve get together on Friday as well.
Now, this from the Atlanta Fed President
Rafael Bostik, saying consumers are
growing more stressed and tariff costs
are real. His comments coming after
meeting with bankers, educators, and
business owners in the southeast.
>> Love the pictures of him in factories
with earplugs in trying to oversee the
mis the making of dog biscuits and toys.
I do think it's interesting how much
what he observed highlights the dilemma
of the Federal Reserve, the dual mandate
that is in conflict. You have high
prices and you have consumers that are
indicating that they are struggling. you
have at the same time companies saying
that they are struggling to find workers
at the same time that households are
struggling to pay their bills. This is
not an easy situation for the Federal
Reserve and doesn't lead to a clear
answer which is the reason why he said I
see the world today as having a lot of
different possible outcomes. I don't
think I have enough confidence about the
probabilities assigned to the specific
outcomes to feel like we can move
definitively in one direction or
another.
>> There isn't a massive incentive for
chairman power to signal anything on
Friday. We've got another data point
payrolls early September CPI the week
after and he's got a very divided
committee going into that meeting
>> and a highly politicized environment at
a time when uh we've heard from
President Trump and all of the people
around him that they want a a Fed rate
cut. So if he's not incentivized to say
anything, does he just give a two-minute
speech? We just said about monetary
policy. We're discussing everything.
Thanks so much. See you. See you next
year. or does he give some sort of new
framework of a way that they're looking
at it or looking at data to try to give
some more informed view of their
decision decision-making process?
>> When we were together in Jackson Hole
back in 2022, I remember how jarring
that 8-minute speech was. We sort of got
situated, got a coffee, got ready to sit
back for 20 minutes and try and catch
our breath and the thing just abruptly
ended. Pain, pain, pain. Back to you.
>> Yeah,
>> we're not getting there this time
around, are we?
>> Well, last year was 15 minutes. That was
the eight eight minute uh getting longer
speech. So all I can say is if he goes
longer that'll give us a chance to go to
the bathroom and grab a cup of coffee.
But if you thank that's really I
appreciate that. This was actually a
very inside baseball moment when I was
hearing you describe that because I
reflected on the pain that I felt
personally. Let's move on.
>> I'm going to move on. We'll get more
data later this week. And by data I'm
talking about retail earnings ramping up
through the week. Tomorrow we're going
to hear from Home Depot, Target on
Wednesday, Walmart on Thursday. This is
a really important read on retail in
America.
>> Yeah. Do they see a weakening in the
consumer? Are they catering more to the
lower income consumers by cutting
prices? Or are they upshifting some of
their goods to try to sell to the higher
income consumers that have really
powered the entire consumer spending
picture in the United States? Are these
companies still the read on the economy
that they have been in the past? Or is
that led by some of the smaller
companies that we've seen struggling?
Because ultimately the Walmarts of the
world have massive tech presences, have
massive media empires, have massive
shipping empires, and have the heft that
a lot of smaller business really envy in
terms of negotiating tariffs and terms
with their suppliers.
>> Results from Walmart coming on Thursday.
Look out for the big one later this
week. The big story this morning is on
Ukraine. The Ukrainian president
Vladimir Zilinski heading to the White
House. Terry Haynes of pang geopolicy
writing geopolitics is in the economic
driver's seat. Terry joins us now for
more. Terry, welcome to the show. Just
off the top, I just wanted to get your
feel on how much pressure is on the
Ukrainian leader going into this
meeting. No, there's been pressure on
him for uh for three and a half years,
but the to me the only thing that's
changed really is that, you know, we're
we're right down to the point where uh
or directionally uh in the next week, I
think we're going to know whether we're
on a path to peace in Ukraine uh or
whether we're on a path to not peace in
Ukraine. And for markets, what matters
there uh is not just the geopolitics,
but also whether you see the return of
secondary sanctions and the like. Uh,
and I think that's probably quite likely
should we go south.
>> Well, oil ended the day on Friday. I
checked it, Terry, leaving Alaska lower.
The market doesn't think we're going to
get secondary sanctions. Is the market
basically wrong here?
>> No, I I you know what I told markets
yesterday was that I thought the the the
markets would probably be positive
coming out of Alaska and then oil was
one of those indicators. Uh, and so far
that's been correct. Uh but you know the
the markets are going to see uh with the
European leaders flying in today as well
as Zilinski uh you know they're going to
see positive strides towards peace uh
that probably justify the continuation
of lower oil prices. All I'm suggesting
is that uh we get to a week from now and
that may not be true anymore. uh you
know what you know fundamentally what
we've got here is a situation where uh
Trump and Putin started a process uh
that the United States describes itself
explicitly as a mediator uh in this
process overall uh but that Europe and
China I think are going to be much more
important and uh you know Europe needs
not to be the coalition of the willing
it needs to be the coalition of the
acting and we're going to get to see in
the next seven days whether they are or
they aren't. Well, Terry, we went into
the meeting though with the president
saying there's going to be severe
consequences if there's no sessation of
hostilities. We all left Alaska with no
ceasefire and no severe consequences.
Why do you think in a week the
president's going to change his mind?
>> I didn't think I don't think he's going
to change his mind. I think
circumstances might well change his
mind. Uh I read the administration as
jumping over the uh frankly jumping over
the ceasefire into trying to get
something lasting quickly. If there's
anything we know about Trump, not not
the amateur psychology that we usually
hear, anything we know about Trump, what
Trump wants is to have real negotiations
that have that have real consequences.
In other words, that succeed or fail.
And he wants to do that on a relatively
short time frame.
>> Terry, not to interrupt, but that's what
Putin wants. Putin wants to go to a
peace agreement and work towards that
because without a sation of hostilities,
he continues to bombard Ukraine and can
do so until there is a final peace
agreement. Did he not just sway the
president to to his thinking?
>> I don't think he swayed the president at
all. Frankly, I find the a lot of the uh
the Putin won the debate uh or the uh
the meeting to be a lot of pearl
clutching. This is a guy who went above
among other things. Okay, this is a guy
who went to the United States, uh, you
know, didn't have to didn't meet get to
meet in a neutral country or anything
else. This is a guy whose war aims are
to take over Ukraine. Look at the
different handle here. To take over
Ukraine. So far, he's he has lost 83% of
his war aims. Uh, and this is a guy that
got buzzed by a B2 bomber when he got
off his plane. I mean, you know, this is
to me, this is not a guy that's winning
anything. the that the big question is
whether or not the United States and the
West will come together meaningfully and
press that advantage in a way that gets
Ukraine the most favorable terms
possible. Uh I think we know that
directionally in about a week whether or
not the Europeans are willing to step up
or whether they're not. I thought Kelly
Grio in the uh prior segment did a very
nice job at the end there of describing
all the ways in which the Europeans
hadn't stepped up as did you. So uh you
know I'm I'm waiting for the Europeans
here.
>> We keep talking about Europe. We keep
talking about the US. What role does
China uh does India play in trying to uh
bring Russia truly to the table for a
lasting agreement?
>> Uh China, excuse me, Russia is a is
effectively a client state of China in
my estimation and I've thought so for a
few years now. uh and if China didn't
want Russia to to to come to the table
and have some sort of an agreement, then
they wouldn't be doing so. Uh number
one, so I think uh China's okay with
whatever scraps Russia can get. I I this
is very consequential for Ukraine. I am
not minimizing that. I'm just saying,
you know, for you know, whatever they
they think they can get out of uh out of
the Donbus, you know, China's okay.
China's also okay with Europe tying
itself into knots and showing that it's
uh uh that it's not a geopolitical force
to be reckoned with by the way. So uh
you know I I think those are probably
China's motivators.
>> Terry, thank you sir. Terry Haynes of
Pangia Policy. Terry, thank you. I think
Europe's done a good job of that
already, haven't they, over the past few
years.
>> Well, tying themselves in Nazia, it
seems like a consistent theme, which is
a reason why I think it's pretty amazing
that they all agreed on a date to come
on Monday to coalesce in the White
House.
>> You think they're worried about a repeat
in late February?
>> Yes, absolutely. I think they're worried
about that and they're worried about not
being in the room about being perceived
as tying themselves in knots to such a
degree that they're not even at the
table of making an agreement.
>> I think also to your point an Marie we
can't make an agreement without them in
the room.
>> Yeah, they're very relevant in terms of
getting to the endgame. You cannot have
Europe not there given the fact this is
a war on European continent and whether
or not you're going to get to a peace
agreement with security guarantees or
whether or not it's going to be severe
consequences on Russia, you need Europe
for either scenario. All eyes on that
meeting in the nation's capital later on
this afternoon. For now, let's get you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yahra. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, y.
>> Hi, John. Air Canada has suspended its
third quarter guidance and fullear
operating results due to a strike that's
grounded hundreds of flights. But the
airline does plan to resume flights this
evening after the union representing
flight attendants defied a return to
work order Sunday afternoon. Meanwhile,
China's Shanghai stock exchange so stock
exchange closed at its highest level in
a decade on Monday as investors continue
to pile into the mainland market. The
move cementss a 20% turnaround since the
selloff in April tied to US tariff
announcements. The rally reflects a
rising sense of optimism among small
investors who are rotating out of bonds
and into stocks. And I'm sure you were
watching this when John Scotty Shoffler
pulled off an incredible shot to win the
2025 BMW Championship yesterday. The
world's number one landed a wild chip in
on the 17th hole at Caves Valley in
Maryland. The twoshot win over Robert
McIntyre was Sheffller's fifth of the
season, becoming the first player since
Ty Woods to win at least five times on
the PGA Tour in consecutive years.
That's brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Even with some sloppy
putting along the way, just missed the
consistent grind to it out. Felt bad for
Bobby McIntyre. Just a taste of the Rder
Cup in a few weeks to come. Chance of
USA
around the golf course over the weekend.
>> All I can say is I love it when you talk
to yourself about golf after uh we hear
from you because that's essentially what
you're going to be doing. I could
pretend.
>> Both of you always give me the
impression that you want to weigh in.
>> Well, I didn't I didn't say anything.
>> Engage the camera and carry on talking
to myself. It's always really funny that
it's always it's always sort of this,
you know, I'll I'll come up with
something next time. I'll act
passionate.
>> Everybody here is super excited for the
ride to come in a month's time. Up next,
JPAL in Jackson Hole.
>> We know that the economy barely grew
over 1% in the first half of the year.
And so a 4.33%
Fed funds rate is just too high for the
economy, the economy that we have right
now.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
Neil Data of Renmack live from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Snapping a three-day winning streak in
Friday's session on the S&P 500. small
pullback, a repeat of that again this
morning. We're down by about a tenth of
1% on the S&P likewise on the NASDAQ
100. Under surveillance this morning,
check out in Jackson Hole. We know that
the economy barely grew over 1% in the
first half of the year. And so a 4.33%
Fed funds rate is just too high for the
economy, the economy that we have right
now. You have the the scope to cut by 50
basis points. Um, and then after there
that you'd have to look at the data and
you'd have to look at the markets and
you have to look at what's going on in
the real economy and put it all
together.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors bracing for Fed chair JPAL's
speech at the Fed's annual symposium in
Jackson Hole. Neil Dutter of Renaissance
Macro Research writing, "Don't expect a
strong signal." Neil joins us now for
more. Neil, welcome to the program.
Let's start with the labor market. Is
this a labor market in transition?
>> Well, I think so. Um, you know, I think
if you look at things like
underemployment, uh, you know,
discouraged workers out of the
workforce, college unemployment, black
unemployment, I mean, these are, you
know, there's clearly some, um,
weakening in the jobs market. Um,
leaving the, uh, the slowdown in payroll
growth uh, aside. Uh and to me what's
important about it is that it really
undercuts uh this argument that a lot of
hawks are making that the slowing in the
jobs market is largely a supply driven
phenomenon. I mean did we did we have a
bunch of college uh graduates swarming
across the border over the last 3 years.
So I do think that you know demand is
the principal reason why labor market
conditions have slowed and um you know
that's something the Fed ultimately will
need to respond to. Is it problematic
for you that stocks are at all-time
highs and that corporate bond spreads
are at the lowest level since 1998 at a
time where you and others are making the
argument that the economy is weakening
to a significant degree?
>> If financial conditions are actually
this easy, why is it that lending
standards in the Fed's own senior loan
officer survey continue to tighten? Why
is it that housing market conditions are
weak? I mean, I think the argument is
essentially conflating financial market
conditions with financial conditions for
the real economy, and the Fed needs to
respond to what's actually happening in
the real economy.
>> Does it complicate though the Fed's
messaging at a time where the economic
data has been somewhat conflicted? There
have been questions about the integrity
of it just by virtue of how many people
respond to these surveys. And you have a
highly politicized environment with the
president continuing to jawbone the Fed
to cut rates significantly.
No, I mean there's a lot of noise um uh
and uncertainty, but it's also the Fed's
responsibility to make decisions under
these difficult circumstances. Um and
you know, I think that's the tension
that the chairman has to deal with. Um
you know, I don't believe that the Fed
can cut 50, so it's kind of pointless to
even talk about it. um you know, you
have to basically understand where the
other people on the other side of the
argument are. I mean, basically, you
have a Fed at the moment that is split
between people that think they should
cut twice and not at all. Uh so, it's
really hard to just move the Overton
window and be like, "Yep, let's go 50."
Um that's not I don't think that's going
to really persuade people. So, you have
to kind of um you know, pick the battles
wisely. And uh and that's why I think uh
going 25 makes sense as an insurance
policy essentially. I mean if the labor
markets deteriorate further um you know
then the Fed can get more aggressive.
But if you're calling for 50 right now I
mean I think what you're basically
saying that's really a call option on
another really bad jobs number. Uh so
you know you kind of have to see it
before you can kind of commit to it.
>> Neil, that's what the Treasury Secretary
is calling for. Does he think the
economy is worse than than you think it
is?
No, I think he thinks the Fed is more
behind than I think they might be.
>> When it comes to the Treasury sector,
Jim Biano is putting out this argument
that Bessant is providing filler names
basically and that maybe his argument,
potential speculation is that Trump's
already cut a deal with Bessant to take
the job for next year. What do you think
of that kind of argument as you track
who is going to be the new Fed chair?
I mean, the Treasury Secretary said
repeatedly that he wants that he's in
the job that he wants and that he's been
offered the job and said no. So, I would
take him at his word. Um, you know, in
terms I mean, what we are seeing is a
flood the zone strategy. I mean, the pre
the president's said very clearly that
um that uh you know, there's there's
what like three or four people that he's
actively considering. And um you know, I
do think perhaps a lot of these other
names are just kind of flooding the zone
to advocate for 50. Um, you know, folks
like Lori Logan you had up on your
screen. Um, you know, she's a voter next
year. Maybe, uh, if, uh, you know, if
she thinks she might have a chance at
the job, maybe she'll start advocating
for 50. I mean, I don't know. I think,
you know, most of these people that are
up there, um, they're not going to fall
for it. And I don't think the market is
either. Um, but, um, but I do think
it's, you know, it's it's an interesting
strategy of getting additional people to
kind of come out and support a more
aggressive rate cutting path up front.
Neil, just before you go, got about a
minute left. Just time for, I think, an
important question. You've called this
economy really quite well. You've talked
about a slowdown that actually started
at the end of last year and continued
into this year with regards to the labor
market. The chairman has anchored his
view around the headline unemployment
rate. You've raised questions about
that. How are you anchoring your view?
What are you focused on?
>> Well, I'm focused on a number of
factors. When I talked to them, um I I I
highlighted them. Um, but you know, I
mean, I think it's important to look at
a a wide body of indicators and you
know, the conference board labor
differential as an example. So, what are
consumers telling you about labor market
conditions? They're telling you they're
getting worse at the margin that jobs
are getting harder to get, jobs aren't
plentiful. Historically, this has had a
strong relationship to what actually
happens with the unemployment rate.
That's not surprising because people
tend to see things in their own local
economies before the data actually picks
up on it. Or small businesses. I mean,
there was a lot of enthusiasm around
small business sentiment rising. But
look at what small businesses are
telling you about sales that they're
citing that as one of their single
biggest problems, weak sales. And so,
historically, again, when that happens,
that you start to see unemployment going
up. And then looking at the employment
data itself, I mean, look, we can talk
about lower break even rates all you
want, but I don't think a lot of people
had like sub50 on jobs on their bingo
card in the second quarter, okay? And
that's kind of where we are right now.
And you have to ask
>> where are we going? And I do think uh
it's probably weaker from here,
particularly with with respect to
housing related industries.
>> Neil, appreciate your time as always.
Neil Data of Renmack on the slowdown he
sees in the economy and the need he says
for this Fed to act from New York. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next.
>> We fell because of the tariffs. We had
this big selloff and we've now
recovered.
>> I think this momentum is real.
>> This is a interesting inflection point.
There's potential for upside. This is
not a particularly screamingly broad
rally.
>> I think the markets are starting to
conclude that you know what uncertainty
is going to be with us here for a while.
Let's move on with our businesses.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The second hour of Bloomberg Savannah
starts right now live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good morning
to you all. Your scores look like this
so far this Monday morning. Equities
pulling back just a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. down a tenth also on the NASDAQ
100 anticipating this week right here.
It starts down in Washington with a get
together between the Ukrainian leader
and President Donald Trump. As the week
advances, the focus on retailers grows.
Home Depot tomorrow, Target on
Wednesday, Walmart on Thursday, and then
the big one of the week for markets
worldwide as Chairman Pal in Jackson
Hole.
>> It perfectly sums up the conundrum for
markets right now. Essentially, you're
going to have companies come out
possibly tell you that they're doing
better than expected like all the other
companies that have come out or the bulk
of them talking about how profitability
has exceeded expectations. That has been
what we have seen so far. And then
you're going to hear an explanation from
the head of the Federal Reserve about
why they are or are not cutting when the
markets baking in more than 100 basis
points of rate cuts between now and the
end of next year. Try to square this
circle. the idea that you see real
strength in the underlying economy as
represented by corporate America. But
when you hear anyone talk about the Fed,
they talk about the need for more
accommodation.
>> Whether it's Zilinski or Chairman Pal,
those two individuals under pressure
from this president, the president of
the United States,
>> and for today, it's going to be
Zilinski. President Trump made it pretty
clear leaving Alaska, he spoke to Sean
Hannity after basically we're all
scratching our heads in Anchorage. Why
didn't he take questions? This is a
president who has the propensity to
constantly want to brief the press. And
why did they not have an extended
bilateral meeting? What happened
exactly? What is Alinsky going to put in
front of him today? The president says
it's now up to him to get it done. He
has two issues at play. One is
territory, which is really the third
rail when it comes to issues politically
back home for Zilinsky. And then these
security guarantees. Georgia Maloney
talked about this months ago. Now it
looks like they have this concept of an
idea of a security guarantee that's
article 5 NATO like but not NATO. And
everyone is dying to know what actually
are the details of this.
>> We jumped a phase, didn't we? We jumped
a step. We've gone from ceasefire talks
to a full peace deal and a real
acceleration of the process,
>> which some people say is probably a bad
sign because without a ceasefire, there
is this feeling that maybe Russia could
gun it into Ukraine and try to get more
territory. A real question here about
how much more leverage uh Putin has
gotten and whether he's just buying time
as he has done before. I'm just
wondering about Europe's role and their
ability to get to the table as quickly
as possible and how much this is really
a pivotal moment for them to remain a
really central uh player in the global
stage because ultimately that seems to
be what's at stake here.
>> We all want to see peace and I think we
all need to give this space to play out,
this process to play out through the
weeks ahead. But I do have an obvious
question. Why are we okay with Article 5
like security agreements but not Article
5 agreements within NATO? What's the
difference between the two? And what
does that tell you about one versus the
other?
>> So, it's a wonderful question. If there
is no difference, then essentially why
would Vladimir Putin agree to it? If
there is a difference, why does it
provide any protection to Ukraine
whatsoever? Because if it isn't really a
concrete deal offering protection, how
does Vladimir Zalinski have that
assurance that they will come to his
rescue? It feels more like rhetoric, I
think, for it to be article 5 and
actually for Ukraine to be admitted into
NATO, that is a red flag according to
Steve Wickoff that Putin said behind
closed doors and he's been saying for
years for it to be article 5 likely you
have to have boots on the ground all the
time and much more of an integrated
process between Ukraine and NATO
members. If it's just article 5 like it
sounds like it's some agreement that
you're just going to sign on the dotted
line that is some vague security
assurances. My question is how is this
going to be lasting? Can this actually
have the threshold of be continuing
throughout multiple US presidencies in
the future?
>> Big focus on the nation's capital later
on this afternoon. Big focus on this
market through the week. Equities close
to alltime highs pulling back just a
tenth of 1% on the S&P so far. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Drew
Pettit of City as stocks pull back from
all-time highs. Henry traved partners as
the Senate confirmation process backs up
and Patrick Moorehead of more insights
and strategy ahead of new tariffs on
semiconductors. We begin this hour with
stock steady as investors face down a
week full of event risk. Drew Pettit of
City writing, "When markets see a not
too hot, not too cold economic data
backdrop, performance broadens. any
macro concerns or policy uncertainty
upticks ends up leading to more of the
same, a growth driven market. Drew joins
us now for more. Drew, welcome to the
program. Which market are you
positioning for?
>> So short-term, we're we're sticking with
growth here. Look at at an index like
high level. If you're thinking about
high beta, we like NASDAQ over Russell
right now. When you think about
operating leverage, margin expansion,
who can really get through cyclical
uncertainty, it's a lot of the growth
and AI driven names right now. So
near-term, we're going to stick with
growth.
>> Drew, let's talk about the other
companies, the cyclical players. When we
speak to economists on this program,
they talk about building growing
evidence of margin squeeze. Drew, do you
see the same thing across the companies
that you look at and what are the levers
they have available to them to offset
that in the months to come?
>> So, we we actually agree that's where
you're seeing the margin compression or
or I would say even margin stickiness if
they have low margins. When you don't
have a lot of margin and there's
uncertainty or policy changes, there's
nothing you can really eat. you either
have to pass that through and that could
hurt demand or if you do have some you
got to kind of give it up just to kind
of keep some share. So, it's been messy
for the cyclical side of the market and
that's where you've seen a lot of
downward revisions. When we started the
year, there was only about 5% of the
companies in the S&P that were expected
to have negative earnings growth. Fast
forward to today, that's almost 30%. So,
that's been a massive headwind in why we
really haven't gotten broadening to this
point. If you put this together, Drew,
it points to something we've been
talking about and hinting about all
morning, which is the big are getting
bigger and in a stronger position, and
we're going to see that probably this
week with the likes of Home Depot, but
more importantly, Walmart. How much does
this just broaden the division in
performance between the small cap
universe, which has underperformed for
decades now, uh, and the large caps,
which might be poised to continue to
outperform based on their ability to
negotiate contracts based on their
ability to adapt the new AI landscape?
So this is kind of the beauty. A lot of
what we're talking about now might
actually be the backward looking. The
one thing that has changed in the last
month when we start to think about 2026
and markets increasingly and investors
are starting to to think about 2026 is
the one big beautiful bill act. So that
should actually help a lot more of the
cyclical names and some of the names
that probably had been hurt more by
tariffs. So you finally get a little bit
of an offset and the compares are
getting a little bit easier. So yeah,
all these companies with tons of free
cash flow have been able to develop
business develop their businesses and
take some different shots to change
businesses that have really helped them.
Going forward, it should narrow. You
should finally get some less negative or
earnings growers. That should probably
help with participation. Will it change
leadership? Not sure we're there yet,
but maybe finally we can start talking
about the Russell finally going up
rather than just bouncing off of lows.
>> How much does that really uh hinge on
whether or not we get rate cuts?
>> That's definitely part of it from the
performance perspective. We've been
saying this for a long time about small
cap. It's not an eitheror. You need both
better economic data and lower rates. It
it's it's really twofold. You know, a
lot of these companies higher interest
rates, depreciation, amortization,
that's really hurt because they haven't
had operating leverage. So, lower
interest rates, more access to capital,
down cap, and in cyclicals can
definitely help them change businesses
and get some more productivity gains in
margin expansion, which honestly that's
what markets want right now in single
stocks.
>> Drew, when you're looking at margin
expansions, can businesses pass on the
costs of tariffs to consumers?
>> It depends. This this has been messy and
honestly something we've had to look at
sector by sector. The growth names and
anyone tied to any type of tech or
secular trend has been able to either
get margins by productivity enhancements
or gain share because they're just
better businesses and experiences for
their customers. Um,
outside of that, it's been really,
really tough to see anyone really have
any positive operating leverage and be
able to pass on costs.
>> So, if they're not able to pass on cost,
but they have to cut cost, Drew, what
are they going to do?
>> You end up kind of surviving until you
can get out the other side of what feels
like an early cycle environment. And
guess what's early cycle? economic data
finally bottoming and and rates coming
down and that's a broadening thesis and
that's probably a healthier leg of a
bull market. That's something we can see
coming in 2026. It's just how early do
markets turn. Again, short-term growth
names probably a safer trade to be in if
you're looking for some beta. Next year
is when the thesis around broadening
gets a little bit more real at least
fundamentally.
>> Hey Drew, appreciate reaction this
morning. Thank you sir. Drew Pettit
there of City on the equity market. It's
so strange to have this conversation
about tighter margins and an economic
growth slowdown with high yield spreads
as tight as they are and investment
grade spreads as tight as they are.
>> If you look at margins in many
industries, they're not shrinking. This
is the irony. You talk about margin
compression, you're seeing it with PPI
versus CPI, but when you take a look at
what's actually happening for S&P 500
companies, they're not compressing all
that much and corporate strength is all
the better. It raises the question, is
Scott Besson correct in saying that
margins are just normalizing post
pandemic or does this indicate that it's
being felt elsewhere? Read smaller
companies that are the ones that
possibly would benefit by uh cutting
rates. Look, the reason why this sounds
confusing is because it is and there are
lots of different tiers and it's the
reason why it's going to be very
complicated to put it together with one
cohesive monetary policy. Torsson over
the weekend of Apollo writing this solid
macro and corporate fundamentals coupled
with persistent institutional demand and
limited net new supply have anchored
credit spreads and performance speaks to
everything we've seen over the past few
months
>> and maybe the $7 trillion in the
sidelines that people talked about which
I know you I can see you rolling your
eyes and I agree with you because it's
not on the sidelines
cash and it's actually giving 5% or 4
and a half% that's actually pretty good
so maybe it's not on the sidelines but
it's still there so maybe it's rolling
in
>> it's a wall of money steps in every time
we get any kind of backup in spread
every single time. Elsewhere in the
equity market, futures slightly softer.
We're down by about a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. With an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief,
here Arnold. Hey, Yhara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump will host
Ukrainian President Zalinski and
European allies in Washington today to
set out terms for a potential peace deal
with Russia with the focus on
territorial concessions and Keev seeking
security guarantees. This after
President Trump and Putin met in Alaska
with little revealed in what was
discussed. Meanwhile, White House trade
adviser Peter Navaro is out with some
strong criticism of India's use of
Russian oil, calling the purchases quote
opportunistic and deeply corrosive in
the Financial Times. Navaro went on to
say India needs to start acting like a
strategic partner of the US if it wants
to be treated as one. And English
football is back with the Premier League
season starting with a busy opening
weekend. Liverpool, Tottenham, and
Arsenal are off to strong starts after
winning their first matches. The new
look Manchester United squad failed to
find a spark and get on the score sheet
while Manchester City and Sunderland
also came away with wins after holding
their opponents scoreless. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Dear AC Milan,
when you have one of the world's best
midfielders, do not sell that player at
the start of the transfer window to one
of the richest clubs on the planet for
peanuts for nothing. The debut of
Tajjani Rinders over the weekend just
absolutely phenomenal. And I think if
you are a Milan fan over the weekend,
you were shedding a tear for how much
little money was raised at Milan and how
little has been spent over the transfer
window to compensate for it.
>> Would you like to sign your letter?
Love, Jonathan Pharaoh. I think I don't
know how much love is left. I mean,
honestly,
>> I don't know how much love is left.
>> All I can say is English football never
left because ultimately everyone has a
team and everyone has a league and it
feels like this is like the new slave
labor. They're just compensated a lot
for it.
>> They've been playing a lot of football,
haven't they?
>> It's crazy. I mean, could you imagine?
>> Don't worry, they get paid a lot, too.
>> I know. I know it's not exactly
slalestin
on the planet, right? And all that.
Yeah, something like that. Up next on
the program, the confirmation process.
I'll be naming a new chairman sometime
within the next I think I'll name it a
little bit early. The new chairman I'm
down to three or four names. All good.
All great. We'll talk about that process
in just a moment with Henry Trees of
Vader Partners live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
equity softer this morning down a tenth
of 1% on the S&P likewise on the NASDAQ
100 down by.1% so far this morning under
surveillance this morning the
confirmation process
we call him Jerome Tate Bell it will
live with him forever I believe that
name will live with him forever ever.
I'll be naming a new chairman sometime
within the next I think I'll name it a
little bit early. The new chairman. I'm
down to three or four names. All good.
All great. The problem is you name them
and then uh they turn out to be not
good. That's happened to me a couple of
times.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump looking to put
his stamp on the Federal Reserve and the
BLS. With Congress on August recess,
both White House economic adviser Steven
Myron and Heritage Foundation economist
EJ Anthony will look to be confirmed on
Capitol Hill. Bloomberg's Mike McKe has
the latest. Mike, welcome to the
program, sir. I think we're all asking
the similar question, just how quickly
this confirmation process can be
conducted.
Well, ordinarily it can't be conducted
very quickly because uh people who are
nominated have to fill out extensive
financial disclosure firms and then they
go around on Capitol Hill and meet with
senators uh privately to sell their
nomination. Uh the senators do their own
investigations, the committees do. So it
can take months. In this case, there's
going to be a big push from the
president to get Steven in by September
17th. That's going to be tough because
there uh the Senate doesn't come back
until September 3rd and they have only
10 legislative days of work in
Washington before that uh September 17th
meeting. So, they would have to set some
sort of speed record for the Senate in
getting him confirmed in that time
frame. I don't think that it's going to
matter much with Anton. The BLS will
continue to produce the data whether or
not he's in place and his nomination is
going to be a lot more controversial. So
I would expect his to take some time.
>> Mike, just a final question from me.
You're in Jackson Hole already ahead of
the annual get together for the Federal
Reserve. Are they going to tackle these
issues of data reliability, data
dependence? Are they going to tackle
these issues of institutional
independence? Are these things going to
come up?
>> Probably not in the sessions themselves.
We will certainly be asking members of
the Fed and others about it uh when we
are up at Jackson Lake Lodge. The issue
is there's really only one public-f
facing kind of speech and that comes
from the chairman and I don't think he
wants to go anywhere near those uh those
issues. He'll be talking about the
framework we expect and maybe giving
some hints about whether they're
thinking of cutting rates in September,
but the rest of it is probably not going
to be something that is widely
discussed.
>> Mike McKe with the latest in Jackson
Hall. Mike, thank you. We'll catch up
with you a little bit later. Joining us
now, Henrietta Trace of Vader Partners.
Henrietta, I believe the next Fed
meeting is September 17th. Will Steven
Myron be there?
>> I would be really surprised. There is
not always an advantage to being a
Senate nerd, but every once in a while,
it's really convenient. And this is an
opportunity where we know that as soon
as the senators get back from their
month-long recess, they're going to
start debate on the National Defense
Authorization Act. And once we move to
that on the Senate floor, it can occupy
weeks of time. So getting a confirmation
for somebody who hasn't gone through the
motions yet with the committees not even
in session is actually going to be
incredibly complex. Um and I think that
there is a lot of reason to anticipate
that the senators are also going to be
trying to work with the uh other you
know 10 or so votes we're going to need
from the Democratic side to keep the
government going into September 30th.
They're going to have questions about
why the Russia sanctions package isn't
going into effect. Um the president has
threatened these secondary tariffs on
India, but they haven't actually put
them on. There's a lot of competing
factions and some wars happening that
include Republican senators that could
delay the approval of any of these
nominations for several months to come.
>> Henrietta, how much pressure right now
is the White House putting on the Senate
when it comes to Steve Meyer to try to
get his nomination through before the
Fed meets? I I think it's very minimal
just in terms of understanding that the
opportunities for the president to
continue pummeling Powell are actually
very convenient for the president. The
more he can lombast the Federal Reserve,
the better for the president personally,
especially as we get additional
inflation data and these tariffs from
August go into effect. So, I think
there's a pretty valuable sort of
punching bag in the Federal Reserve
right now. and being able to continue to
hammer that and say we want our guys in
there, they're not there yet, is in
maybe everybody's best interest from the
White House perspective.
>> When it comes to the BLS commissioner
nomination, EJ Antony, there's a 51%
chance according to Koshi that he gets
through. What do you put the probability
as?
>> I think it's going to be lower than
that. Uh, you know, I'm a pretty econ
focused person generally, especially on
the Hill, and the unanimity behind
opposing this proposed commissioner is
really alarming. As you guys know full
well, economists don't always agree on a
lot of things. In this case, it's pretty
much unanimous, very outspoken from
really trusted resources, from
conservative think tanks, from
conservative economists saying this is
just not the guy to have continuity of
confidence in the data. And I think that
there are a lot of senators who would
like to advise and consent on this in a
way that gets somebody in there that's
less um polarizing. It's not going to be
ever a first tier concern. Bureau of
Labor and Statistics is not where they
spend an inordinate amount of their time
and we could very well be walking into a
government shutdown, but I think they're
very happy to delay. Uh 51% on the same
side of me.
>> So, Congress takes a lot of vacation
time and we talk about this a lot and
they have their August recess right now.
We're all jealous. It sounds very
European. How many of them go back to
their constituents and actually hear
what people are saying about tariffs and
about the labor market and about the
current situation? How much will that
change the way they act when they come
back to Washington DC in September?
>> I think it's most relevant for the House
members because they're up for
reelection and only a handful of the
senators are and the one sen the
senators who are inordinately exposed to
election risk have already said that
they're quitting. You know, Tom Tillis
of North Carolina has decided not to run
again over the one big beautiful bill.
Um I will say that wherever I go uh I
ask about tariffs. You know, if I'm
standing in the grocery line, I turn
around and ask people, you know, oh,
this whatever about tariffs. Every
single person in America is familiar and
has an opinion about tariffs. And it's
pretty universally negative. 87%
of Americans are concerned about the
inflation that will come from tariffs
per the latest Galllet poll. So, it's a
pretty easy conversation to have and I
think most members would like to stay
away from it. What the Republicans are
really focusing on is selling the one
big beautiful bill and things like no
taxes on tips and pieces along those
lines that they think they can message
in a positive light to their
constituents.
>> I have to say I'm thinking about you and
the grocery store line and people saying
ah there goes that woman again. Before
we let you go, I do want just a word on
what you expect to happen today in
Washington DC. Very much the focus is on
Vladimir Zilinsky, the coalition of
European leaders coming to speak with
President Trump. What are you expecting
to learn from that meeting?
Uh, well, first of all, I'm a delight in
a grocery store, and I would just say
that it's fun to talk about terrorists.
No, I'm just kidding. Um, when it comes
to today, I think that what's happening
is the the United States has an
inordinately low gas price right now,
which I think is really interesting. I
was out in Reland, Louisiana, last
weekend, and it was $247.
The Trump administration is in a
position to impose these sanctions from
a domestic standpoint given where gas
prices in oil are today. And the fact
that they are not indicates pretty
clearly that they're not going to put
the squeeze on Russia. So I think that
is why the European leaders are coming
over uh in you know such haste as y'all
were pointing out earlier to make sure
that they're involved in this
conversation. They don't leave Zilinsky
hanging in the wind alone like he was
last time. Um but I I think we're still
a ways away from any kind of full-blown
ceasefire or any kind of peace deal. I
think this is, you know, obviously in
President Putin's best interest uh to
continue that pace and the India
sanctions the most that I'm expecting in
the weeks ahead. Uh not on China um and
probably not on anywhere else.
>> Yeah, let's just build on that. Pa
Navaro talked about the same thing. Is
there an obvious interplay right now
between say Russia sanctions policy and
the approach to tariffs?
>> Absolutely. You know, it's so obvious
from like there just the way the
president speaks to it, calling them
secondary tariffs instead of secondary
sanctions. Um, I think what's most
telling is the way in which the
president has decided to impose the
sanctions on India. They're not tariffs,
excuse me, they're not sanctions the way
that they ordinarily would be. They're
tariffs on all the goods that he's
imposing tariffs on under AIPA. So, he's
actually evading the strategy of
sanctions, which is to target
specifically your arms dealers, your
arms uh defense industry, oligarchs,
people that you would ordinarily target,
financial institutions, just for a
sanctions process. And instead, he's
using the AIPA tariffs. And I think
there is absolutely an interplay there.
And most notably to me is his is
President Trump's resistance to imposing
a broad sanctions package that would
penalize Russia in a meaningful way. And
there's a couple things most of which is
the president of the United States
cannot afford to escalate the trade war
with China at this juncture and still
hope to have a meeting in the fall.
Still hope to have trade between the two
nations. It just can't be done. And so
he's hamstrong on India which is why
Navaro is highly
>> appreciate your time. Henry a trace
there of Vader partners P and Nvara in
the Financial Times this morning.
American consumers buy Indian goods.
India uses those dollars to buy
discounted Russian crude. Up next, new
chip tariffs on the horizon. Patrick
Moorehead of more insights and strategy
joins us in just a moment.
Quiet start to a busy week this week. We
start lower by about a tenth of 1% on
the S&P. Down by 0.16 on the NASDAQ. The
busy week I'm talking about retail
earnings kicking off with Home Depot,
Target, and Walmart. That starts
tomorrow morning. Concludes on Thursday.
Busy week down in Washington as well. It
kicks off later on this afternoon with
Vladimir Zilinsky sitting down with the
president of the United States. and a
busy week for the Federal Reserve. That
concludes on Friday with Chairman Pal in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. As we count you
down to that opening bell, two hours
away. Let's get you some morning movers
with Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. For a second trading day,
we're seeing a lot of the clean energy
stocks rally. That was after Friday when
government agencies issued new guidance
when it comes to solar tax credits. The
large outcome of that, less ownorous
than was expected. So, Sunun, for
example, that's up 3.3%. RBC also
upgraded that stock this morning saying
that what we got from the government
removes a lot of the uncertainty for
solar those shares up 4%. Elsewhere Nova
Nortis those ADRs are rallying thanks to
its Wikovi got approval to treat a rare
liver disease. The issue though for Lily
is it got to market before them. So Lily
was lower this morning but still down by
about half a percent of Kosovo notice
has been languishing this year. A lot
more competition for its obesity drug.
In the last hour, we also learned that
Soho House would be going private. They
confirmed an earlier report from the
Wall Street Journal. Its current
investors will be taking it private for
$9 a share. We're not quite there.
Shares are rallying 16%. John, you
talked about the tension of a private
members club being public. Of course,
the real tension is any of the bankers
who work on this deal won't be allowed
to be members of Soho House.
>> Haven't they started to adjust those
rules? I know plenty of people, Danny,
have got around that. Don't you?
>> Yeah, but I mean, they lied to do it
right. They're not like, "Oh, I'm a
banker. I'm a, you know, executive of a
fancy art company or something like
that.
>> People who work in banks are the least
of their problems right now. Danny,
thank you. Danny Burgerer, thank you. As
some might say, the Dou Airlines lounge
of the private members clubs.
>> Okay. All I could say is I'm really not
feeling bad for this. This is Groucho
Marks moment, right? I wouldn't want to
be a part of any club that would have
me. And so at a certain point there is
this natural tension between expanding a
club that is by nature exclusive. It's
too overrun. You're more of a five
Harford Street guy.
>> Thank you. Appreciate that. It's a good
club.
>> Yeah, it's a good club.
>> Okay, we'll move on.
>> I know a few members,
>> of course. On a radar this morning,
President Donald Trump hosting Ukrainian
President Zilinski and European allies
in Washington today. It set out terms
for a potential peace deal with Russia.
The leaders said to focus on territorial
concessions with Keev, seeking security
guarantees. So to me this is going to be
a pivotal meeting to really understand
exactly how realistic it is for them to
get some sort of peace agreement at a
time where ceasefire doesn't seem to be
the main uh precursor to any such
agreement. If you don't have that, will
Russia really stop trying to get more
land ahead of negotiations where
essentially the United States is backing
Russia's uh uh argument for Ukraine to
give up some of its land, whatever we
call it, ceasefire, peace deal,
sessation of hostilities was supposed to
be the start of a process. And now
sessation of hostilities is the end of a
process. Which is why many critics think
that in the end Putin won at least on
that front because he can continue
bombarding Ukraine and at the same time
say that he's part of this process to
wind down the war. The president
Anchorage and I was there made it very
clear there is no deal until there's a
deal which means he has to get Zilinsky
on board. Now Zilinski is going to take
a big step forward today as opposed to
his Oval Office blow up in February when
it comes to at least a discussion on
security guarantees. this NATO like
article 5 security guarantee along with
European leaders having his back. But
when it comes to the territory, this is
where it's going to be incredibly
difficult because what Putin is asking
for is part of the re part of a region
parts of it that Ukraine actually has
men there and troops there and not just
a front line. They've actually fortified
cities and it's become their main front
line to Russia and without that after
that there's just basically fields and
it gives them an open wide for the
Russians. This is why it is so difficult
for Zilinsky to accept.
>> That's the latest on Washington. Look
out for those meetings later on this
afternoon. Here's the latest on the
Federal Reserve. The Fed and focus this
week as the Jackson Hall symposium
begins on Thursday. All eyes on Fed
chair Jay Pal's remarks as he's expected
to signal the Fed's thinking ahead of
the meeting in September. Is he though?
This is the question. Is he expected to
really signal will they or won't they
cut rates in September? This is sort of
the big question. There's that. There's
how much does the Fed push back against
any kind of political interference.
Expect none of these questions to be
answered. Instead, it'll be an academic
discourse on the labor market and the
nature of changes and artificial
intelligence and immigration and how you
measure inflation. And it might be a lot
of jargon because why wouldn't they? Why
do they want to weigh in at a time when
there is such a lack of certainty around
the economic data yet? That is what
people are hoping for.
>> You sound like someone who's canceled
their flight.
>> I have not cancelled my I'm actually
excited to have I'm actually excited to
have these discussions and I'm excited
to go for a hike because I like hiking
and I really enjoy the the Grand Tetons
and I do find it really cool that all of
the different Fed officials and even
global leaders
>> safe. We're just paying for you to go
hiking in Jackson Hole. Yeah.
>> Is that what this is?
100% accurate. Absolutely not. I'm going
to have really sensitive conversations.
>> For the record, I didn't go hiking or
bear watching in Alaska. I came right
home to make sure I was on the show
today. Right.
>> Be safe, Brao. If management's watching
this morning.
>> Okay. The device war is heating up as
foldable phones gained traction.
According to NBC News, Samsung's
smartphone market share rose to 31%
while Apple's declined to 49% for the
second quarter of all the companies, the
big companies on the S&P 500 right now.
This one in a really tricky spot.
>> So, Apple doesn't have a foldable phone
and they're behind on AI. The idea that
Samsung is making inroads at a time
where Apple is also challenged by some
of the tariffs and where the production
lines are coming from really highlights
why there is skepticism and why you have
seen the shares of that company down
7.5% even though Samsung shares are up
about 35% so far in 2025. It feels like
people are waiting for a shifting in the
guards. You also see Samsung playing
with tablets that aren't just a square
or a rectangle that are flat. They're
also looking for other potential shapes.
Do we get a circle? Do we get goggles?
Do we get maybe a wristband? And these
are the things that Apple has really
avoided until now.
>> Innovation. We'd like to see some,
wouldn't we, sometime soon anyway from
Apple. Let's stick with tech. President
Trump saying he would set levies on
semiconductors in the next two weeks,
suggesting the rate could be as high as
300% on imported chips. Patrick Mohead
of More Insights and Strategy saying, "I
do not believe when the smoke clears the
administration apply large tariffs on
chips." Patrick joins us now for more.
Patrick, welcome to the program, sir.
Let's get to why. What underpins that
statement, sir?
>> Well, we've seen a lot of threats that
have made from the administration and
then and then nothing happens. It's been
derogatorily called taco. But the
reality is is that the administration
doesn't want to tank companies like
Nvidia or Apple and it actually
disincents
final product assembly uh here uh in the
US.
really difficult to navigate this
moment, Patrick, as you know, because
the other topic we discussed just last
week is that the money they're using for
the chips act, they might try and use to
take an equity stake in Intel. We've got
all this heightened intervention, the
prospect of tariffs, the prospect of a
revenue share if you're selling good to
China, the prospect of an equity stake
sale from Intel to the government.
Patrick, how are you suggesting
investors navigate this moment in this
industry?
Well, I think they do a best case, worst
case, and what's likely going to happen
scenario, but the reality is that none
of us knows what's going to happen. What
I am very confident in though is the US
government will take a stake in Intel
and will choose it as a national
champion for some of the hyperscalers
and some of the big chip makers to
manufacture their chips on because it's
a it's about national security and it's
not unprecedented for the US government
to take equity stakes. They did it in G
GM, Chrysler, uh even Palunteer and more
recently MP materials and MP materials
is probably the best case uh or the best
case study to see how the government
might do that where they take an equity
stake, they take a portion of the
profit. But I think there's going to be
carrots and sticks involved as it
relates to companies like Nvidia uh and
Apple. And with uh section 232, which is
about national security, which there's a
report that should be uh completed any
week now, that gives Trump Trump the out
to go and renegotiate things that may
have been uh considered complete. So for
instance, the agreement with Apple, the
agreement with uh South uh South Korea.
Is government intervention a positive
thing for investors at a time when
there's a whole method of carrots and
sticks?
>> Uh in macro? No. Uh but uh we also have
to recognize when it comes to advanced
chipm and even more importantly advanced
chipm intellectual property. Uh TSMC uh
gave s excuse me Taiwanese government
gave TSMC almost half of their initial
funding. they currently own 6%. I don't
think in the long run interventionism
works because you get the government
involved in anything, it tends to slow
down. But uh for a lifeline uh out there
for something that is this important, I
do not think the n the US government is
going to let Intel foundry or Intel
foundry intellectual property go away.
too important to fail. You said there's
likely going to be some forms of carrot
and sticks. So, we have this
intervention potentially for Intel
basically telling all the companies that
use chips, you have to use an Intel
foundry. At what point will we get Intel
manufacturing at the level we're seeing
from TSMC?
>> So, there's two ways to look at it.
There's the sophistication of the
technology and then there's the amount
of let's say wafers uh that are done
which the core output of what of what
TSMC does. Uh right now, I guess on on
the plus side, uh Intel's 18A and 18 AP
look competitive. Uh they're a tad quote
unquote late compared to what TSMC is
working on, but what they did do is they
did take a stratospheric leap forward
from from where they were uh before. Uh
but then there's uh the capacity side
which is the sheer amount of wafers that
can come out of each companies where
Intel would have a very uh long way to
go. Now signing up somebody like an
Nvidia, like an Apple, like an AMD or a
Broadcom could narrow that gap uh
significantly and it wouldn't even have
to be on bleeding edge, right? uh any of
these companies could take uh let's say
their mid-range lines uh where Intel is
more than capable in in uh 2026 to be
able to manufacture all of these
different parts.
>> Signing up for Intel, is that what it
going to take to get the threshold
basically to get an exemption when Trump
talks about semiconductor tariffs?
>> Yeah, it is. And you know the carrot
that I talked about says, "Hey, if you
make a commitment to Intel, we'll give
you some sort of tax abatement or we
will cover maybe part of uh the cost or
cover the risk of of having to do that."
And then if those companies don't bite,
it could be the stick which says, "Okay,
uh, Nvidia, if you don't want to sign up
for any of this, or Apple, if you don't
want to sign up with Intel, uh, you're
going to have to pay a tariff on those
goods that are coming into um into the
US as a final product as opposed to the
chip." Because we all know that most
chips are not being brought into the
United States for final assembly. Most
AI servers are actually made in in
Mexico and it's covered under zero
tariff uh uh via the USMCA uh deal that
was cut years ago in Trump 1.0.
>> Intel up last week by more than 23% just
stellar rally for that stock. Patrick,
thank you sir. Patrick Moorehead of more
insights and strategy. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us
here's Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Hurricane Aaron has
reintensified into a category 4 storm
after moving past Puerto Rico. Aaron's
top winds strengthened to 130 mph and
according to the National Hurricane
Center, additional intensification is
forecast over the next 12 hours. The
storm is expected to pass between North
Carolina's Outer Banks and Bermuda later
this week. Meanwhile, Advent
International has offered to buy chip
maker Ublocks in a deal valued at around
$1.3 billion. Shares for the Swiss firm
jumped more than 25% Friday. You can see
the pop there following reports of the
possible transaction. The acceptance
window for this deal would run until
around October 29th. And Air Canada
suspended plans to resume flights after
the union representing flight attendants
defied a return to work order yesterday.
The government ordered staff back, but
the union refused, calling the order
unconstitutional. Air Canada now plans
to resume flights this evening. That's
your Bloomberg Reef. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the path for a
Fed cut. One of the reasons I support
the 50 basis point cut right now is that
you have the inversion in the front end
of the curve. Um, that's something like
60 basis points last time I looked. And
so, you know, that you can cut by that
amount without really upsetting things.
A conversation up next with Gennady
Goldberg of TD from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
We're about a month away from the Fed's
next meeting. The schedule of the
calendar looks like this. On Friday,
you'll hear from Chairman Pal. Then onto
early September. On the 5th, you'll get
payrolls. A week later, CPI. A week
after that, the 17th, that Fed meeting.
The countdown continues with equity
futures slightly negative this morning,
by a tenth of 1% on the S&P, down by 0.2
on the NASDAQ. Under surveillance this
morning, the path for a Fed cut.
One of the reasons that I support the 50
basis point cut right now is that you
have the inversion in the front end of
the curve um that's something like 60
basis points last time I looked and so
you know that you can cut by that amount
without really upsetting things. Um but
the weakest part of the market um or the
economy right now is housing and so you
can't have the long end go up and that's
your constraint right now.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking to Chair Powell in
Jackson Hole later this week for clues
on the Fed's next move. Gennady Goldberg
of TD Securities saying, "Assuming the
next round of inflation and payroll data
largely behaves, we believe the path for
a September rate cut by the Fed has been
cleared." Gennady joins us now for more.
Good morning, sir.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Welcome to the program. How high is the
bar to derail that rate cut expectation
for September?
>> I mean, all he has to do is really not
say a ton. Um, I think if he just kind
of clears the way and says, "Look,
we're, you know, we're we're we're
definitely uh looking at the data, but
if all goes well, you know, the market
pricing is the market pricing." I think
that blessing alone would be fine. I
think the big risk for market if he is
if he sounds very non-committal. That's
when the October and the December
pricing, there's about 35 basis points
split between those two. That's when
that starts to move around. If he sounds
like a non-committal chair,
>> what's the incentive to sound committed
to anything on Friday?
>> It's high. I think that's the the the
Excuse me. I'd say the the bar is pretty
high at this point. The data has been
all over the place. You've seen the big
revision to payrolls. I think they've
seen enough to start to move. I think
that's that's the key here. You know,
we're looking for a cut in September,
October, December. I think they've seen
enough to start moving, but you're
right, in order to commit to October,
December, they need to really know that
things are slowing down. I don't think
that's the case. So, I don't think these
calls for 50 basis point rate cuts in
September uh are justified, at least not
yet. but they're going to keep the door
open to everything. I think the bigger
problem is if he comes in and pushes
back on this market pricing and he says,
you know, why do we need to cut it all?
That's really when markets will start to
get upset because right now markets are
trading as though that cut is secured.
>> Do you think that it's awkward that
they're talking about cutting rates in
25 basis point sequential moves for the
rest of this year at a time when
investment grade credit spreads are the
tightest since 1998? I think that the
issue is things are okay on the surface
level. If you dig down into certain
parts of the economy, if you look at
housing for example, if you look at
certain portions of the US consumer,
there are some stresses, but overall, if
you do kind of a top- down analysis,
there's really two problems. One is that
inflation is a little bit uncomfortably
high and we don't quite know the pass
through yet. We know it's kind of
getting through there, but it's not as
terrible as predicted. And the other one
is that yes, consumers are moderating
their purchasing. So, do they need a
little bit of help? Does housing need a
little bit of help? I think 25 basic
point increments makes sense. You kind
of start the process. And, you know, to
John's point, you don't commit to
anything. You just make sure that you
kind of react to the data as it comes
in.
>> You know, I'm just I keep thinking about
a conversation that we were having last
week about can you have your cake and
eat it too. Can you essentially uh have
a really good economy and a labor market
that's continues to be robust at a time
where inflation continues to go down
even though right now you still have it
at a relatively sticky pace. Can you or
is that a fantasy?
>> I think it's you know that would be a
fantastic end to Jer Powell's career
where you know you've got inflation
basically back at 2% the labor market at
full employment and he could just sail
out into the sunset. That would be
fantastic. reality is often different,
but of course reality is often a little
bit different. I think if they can make
sure to keep inflation under control, I
think that's really what's keeping them
from cutting rates here. And if you look
at the labor market, the labor market's
starting to soften up a little bit. You
are starting to see a little bit of a
drift, higher in the unemployment rate.
We expect more of that in the second
half of the year, a little bit less in
consumption, a little bit less in
hiring. It's not a very dynamic labor
market. It's low hire, low fire, right?
The problem with that is when you fly
that close to the ground, it doesn't
take much to upset the apple cart.
>> When you said data is all over the
place, do you trust the data?
>> I trust the data in as much as I've
always trusted it. Right. And there's
there's a hierarchy of data. Right.
First and foremost, you get the
anecdotal data. You dismiss, I would
say, 95% of that or more because that
doesn't tend to drive things. Then you
get survey data, then hard data, and
then really you get, you know, I would
say kind of stretches of data and you
look at averages. So you look at the
3-month or six-month moving average of
something like a payroll report that
those recent revisions really pushed
those averages a lot lower. That's what
the Fed's looking at for direction. It's
not necessarily the next ISM print. It's
really the trend in, you know, the labor
market, the trend in inflation. And from
what they're seeing right now, I think
there's enough to start the process of
cuts, but not necessarily enough to
commit to, you know, 150 base points of
rate cuts, let's say. But going forward
with a highly polarizing, what some
would say bias economist leading the
BLS, would you continue to trust the
data or is the gold standard out the
window?
>> Um, I think we'll have to see if you
know exactly who gets confirmed first of
all. I think there's a confirmation
process where I do suspect there's going
to be some push back. Um, especially if
the views are seen as overly biased. The
BLS is also has several thousand people
employed. There are rule books and
manuals. If we start to see that being
broken down, then of course I think the
data will be suspect. But there are
private sector surveys, you know, ADP
then suddenly becomes much more
important for the for the labor market.
The issue is it's really not a
comprehensive data set for inflation.
That's the big problem because
everything feeds into the PCE report
which then the Fed uses. So it's not
just, you know, it's not that simple, I
would say.
>> Let's talk about the top of the Federal
Reserve. We spoke to a Fed chair
candidate, Mark Sumland. You heard a
piece of that sound, that interview
coming into this conversation. Lisa
asked him a fantastic question about
what he would do if long end rates
started to rise as they were cutting
interest rates. And he was very blunt.
He just said you stop. You stop because
that's not what you want to see
happening. That is what happened last
year from September onwards. Do you see
a risk of that repeating all over again?
>> I think if you view inflation as not
being under control, then absolutely.
And I think the the issue right now is
the Fed's got this very delicate
balancing act. They want to start to
ease. they want to start to help the
economy because they are worried about
the labor market. But if that
inflationary pressure continues to
build, I think the problem becomes they
may actually have to stop or you know
I've seen I've heard floated you know
yield curve control as a possible uh
alternative. I don't think we're there
yet. I think the Treasury is already
starting to worry about it by shifting
some of the issuance to the front end
and buying back more longerdated debt.
Right? So the the worries are already
there. It's just a function of does the
Fed keep moving if that continues to
happen. We expect the curve to keep
steepening. By the way,
>> just quickly, what's your highest
conviction trade given all of this? That
seems very very certain here.
>> I want to I I think it makes sense to
start legging into duration. Um you
know, we are whether it's September or
October, we are seeing the Fed looking
to restart the cutting cycle. You know,
all kind of signs point in that
direction. I think the 7 to 10 year
parts of the curve look especially
attractive. The 5year and under is where
everyone's kind of hiding out and
parked. So if you can extend out the
sevens and tens as rates start to drift
lower, I think that makes a lot of sense
here.
>> Gennady, appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. Gennady Goldberg there of TD
Securities. Fantastic piece over the
weekend from Peter Sheer of Academy. He
put this quote in there. People seem so
fixated on whether people would cut or
not and not interested enough on what
future potential Fed picks would do with
policy to impact the longer end of the
yield curve. That's a debate, a
conversation we've been having too.
>> How do you manage the balance sheet at a
time when potentially that could be used
as a tool to bring rates down at the
long end at the same time that they're
cutting rates on the front end?
>> Bon, you're down at the long end this
morning at least. We're down by three
basis points at the very long end on
30s. 489 there on 10. We're down by 2 to
429 at the very front end of the curve.
Down a single basis point. Your two year
this morning at 374. Coming up on this
program, we'll catch up with Jack Manley
of JP Morgan Asset Management as we
count you down to a big week full of
retail earnings and then it climaxes
concludes with chairman Paul Jackson
Hull on Friday. Plus, we'll speak to
Anisha Sherman of AB Bernstein, Claudia
S of New Century Advisers, and Chris
Heisy of Merill and Bank of America
Private Bank from New York City. The
third hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next.
[Music]
We're sort of in a stackflation light
environment. I
>> I think the economy is slower than
people think and we're seeing pockets
for inflation.
>> The big picture is it's an economy that
continues to perform. It's just not as
dynamic.
>> We're not seeing the big broad-based
kind of price pressures yet.
>> We see the economy flattening out here
in the second half of the year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> The up and down about 90 minutes away.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now with equity futures on
the S&P down by about a tenth of 1%.
Your week ahead is shaping up like this.
The focus on retail and a focus on the
Federal Reserve. Retail earnings through
the week from Home Depot, Target, and
Walmart. The Federal Reserve in focus in
Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Chairman Pal in
Jackson Hole looking for some clues on
what might happen about a month from
now.
>> Does he confirm the idea of a September
rate cut and then sequential rate cuts
after that? Does he talk about what he's
seeing in the labor market and the dual
mandate of the Federal Reserve? And this
comes after retail earnings that are
expected to come in probably pretty
strong. If you look at the previous
earnings reports we've gotten so far in
Q2 which have been pretty robust well
above what people have expected and kind
of pits the sort of S&P versus the
economy and it's sort of this conundrum
that the Fed has to counter which is
financial conditions seem to be pretty
easy. So then how do you talk about the
need to ease monetary policy
>> with great difficulty? Let's get into
it. The S&P 500 all-time highs. You
talked about credit spreads not just
high yield investment grade as well
super super tight. And it comes at a
time when people say that companies are
in a great position. They've termed out
their debt, so they're not paying some
of the very high rates. They look at
profits that actually are growing faster
than people previously expected. So
square this peg, right? Square this
circle. This is a really difficult
moment. I always get expressions wrong.
Apologize. It is a Monday. But going
forward, I just wonder how the Fed
justifies rate cuts without seeming like
they are just dealing with political
pressure from the White House.
>> Well, let's focus on the debate of the
moment, the labor market. So the title
of this year's get together is a labor
market in transition then a bunch of
other words. So let's just focus on the
labor market in transition. We've had a
step down in payrolls growth. What is
the source of the step down in payrolls
growth? Is it a turn in the economy or a
structural shift on the supply side? And
that is the source of great division on
Wall Street right now. And I just wonder
if Chairman Pal makes a call, takes a
side, tells us which side of the debate
he's on at the moment or whether he's
still openmind about September and
beyond. If it is a structural issue and
it's more of a supply issue than a
demand issue, then ultimately wouldn't
this go against the potential rate cuts
that a lot of people are predicting
because ultimately it would mean that
this is a labor market that is just fine
and that the lower numbers are simply
because there are fewer immigrants
coming into the United States and
because people are aging. If that's the
case, it has pretty significant
implications for where the neutral rate
could be. Also, there's been a lot of
economists that have on this program
saying, "What do you expect when it
comes to the labor market report when
companies continuously told us for
months that at the moment they are just
on the sidelines waiting to understand
clarity from Washington DC when it comes
to tariff policy? So, they're not going
out and hiring a ton, but they're also
not firing. So, basically, you have a
frozen labor market,
>> a frozen labor market. We're looking
ahead to more labor market data. Jobless
claims on Thursday morning. And then as
we've repeated throughout this morning,
the main event on Friday, Chairman
Powell in Jackson Hole. Equities at the
moment pulling back by about a tenth of
1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Jack Manley of JP
Morgan Investment Management with stocks
sitting close to record highs. Anisha
Sherman of Bernstein looking ahead to a
key week of retail earnings and Claudia
Assam of New Century Advisers on why
September Fed rate cut is not
guaranteed. We begin this hour with
stocks little changed as traders await
the Fed's annual retreat in Jackson
Hole. Jack Manley of JP Morgan
Investment Management writing, "While
the Fed will likely succumb to cutting
pressure in September, investors should
realize that the trajectory for interest
rates may not be as aggressively
doubbish as recent data suggest." Jack
joins us now for more. Jack, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Just build on that quote a little bit
more for us.
>> Yes. So I I think you know Lisa you were
bringing up a very interesting point
there about what's going on with the
labor market and how a lot of that
recent data have I would say maybe been
misinterpreted. I mean there's a reason
why pal talks about the unemployment
rate and not necessarily about payroll
gains because when you are dealing with
structural complaints or structural
constraints to the supply side of labor
it would make sense that there are not
as many hires out there. And Emory you
mentioned right that fires are still
pretty low right jobless claims are
still pretty low. It is a reasonably
tight labor market. So that to your
point, right, is one reason why perhaps
we don't need as many cuts as perhaps
the market is is cheering for. I would
also say you can get a sort of similar
story out of last week's CPI data,
right? I mean, we know uh that tariffs
in one way or another are going to at
least modestly increase goods prices. We
know that companies have been able to
pad their margins a little bit and and
so eat that a little bit through through
the first half. We know that businesses
were able to build up inventories, but
at some point that's coming here. And
you also know that the underlying
consumer seems to be doing pretty well.
I mean, you have stock prices at
all-time highs, as you said, John. You
got a lot of fiscal stimulus coming down
the pipeline. Again, further evidence
that you don't need a ton of of of
easing here. But I feel like we're in
this weird cycle right now where we're
all caught up around this idea that the
Fed needs to shift to be aggressively
doubbish in monetary policy because we
are on potentially the cusp of a
recession. That to me is the wrong
conversation to be having. Powell has
very explicitly said that he considers
monetary policy to be restrictive. You
look at the dot plot, it tells you more
or less the same thing. Why would policy
be restrictive at a time when there is
so much uncertainty? Why not downshift
into neutral? So, I can stomach a
September cut or two. I can't stomach
this idea that we're going to cut by 200
basis points. That I don't think is
where we are right now.
>> What do you think neutral is?
>> Neutral is probably somewhere between 3
and four. So, let's call it 3 and 1/2%.
It's difficult to see what neutral would
be in a world where the labor market is
structurally supply side constrained
which maybe keeps wages a little bit
firmer which maybe keeps consumption a
little bit stronger maybe neutral is
higher than it was 5 6 years ago but
neutral was not 4 and a.5% which is
where right around where we are right
now.
>> So if the Fed does start getting to that
place is that supportive of valuations
in markets where they are currently
>> no but it helps. I mean like I I think
it's very hard to look at equity market
valuations today and say that you know a
quarter point off of the Fed funds rate
all of a sudden makes this okay. I don't
think that's necessarily what's going on
here. But at the same time if you look
at what's driving equity market
valuations into the stratosphere which
frankly is where they are right now. It
is still that very small handful of tech
focused names that investors are betting
on over the long term. And that's
important this idea that we're looking
out over the long run. I mean, you're
not buying, you know, an AI hyper giant
for the the dividend they're going to
pay next quarter or for, you know, the
the the the next 12 months of earnings.
You're buying these companies because
you think in 10 to 15 years if you don't
own them, you're going to be out of a
job and in the, you know, in in the line
of the soup kitchen, right? I mean,
that's that's why you're buying these
things to to pro protect yourself
against long-term structural changes to
the economy to generate wealth that way.
And if that's how you're thinking about
this stuff, you don't care about next
12-month earnings, which means you don't
care about where valuations are right
now. So I I guess I answer that two
ways, right? This this idea that like on
the one hand, a quarter point doesn't
make much of a difference and valuations
are pretty rich. On the other hand,
maybe valuations don't matter as much
when you're focused so much on these
these tech names that are inherently
longer term. So, I was going to ask
about whether it does help some of the
rest of the 493, but the more that you
talked, the more it sounded like you
kind of think it's a bit of a tulip
phenomenon that you kind of are getting
a little bit concerned about what you're
seeing with people betting this as a
card into the future that if they lose
their job and a robot takes over, they
can at least get paid. Exactly. I mean,
is that is that essentially what you're
saying? This is
>> bubalicious sort of. I mean, could it be
that I'm just sick to death of hearing
about AI? Maybe. Maybe maybe I'm just
maybe I'm just jealous, you know, maybe
that's my problem. But I do think there
is a little bit going on here where
people are just awfully excited about
this stuff and its ability to
fundamentally transform every aspect of
our lives as we know it. And frankly, it
just hasn't yet. And I'm not a
technologist. Maybe I'm something of a
lite. But it's hard for me to imagine
that over the next 12 months there's
going to be some sort of paradigm shift.
You look at what's going on in the
equity market right now and I think that
that's that's reflected. You know what
was very interesting is in the first
quarter even first half of this year you
were looking at a significant broadening
out of participation when it comes to
price performance. The Mag 7 accounted
for 60% of the returns last year they
were accounting for 20 30% of the
returns this year. That number has
creeped up to now 50% that were look to
be heading higher. The market's back
where it was or heading at least in the
direction of where it was last year and
the year before back on this AI hype
train. Uh and so yes, maybe a little bit
of of concern. So what could be the
catalyst for the downside then because
the market's already pricing in rate
cuts, AI and the likes.
>> Uh I would say policy change has the
potential to be a catalyst for for a
downturn um in the sense that there's
still a lot going on underneath the
surface that we don't have a whole lot
of clarity on. You know, this
administration uh campaigned on this
idea of making significant changes to a
number of different policy buckets and
trade and tariffs have certainly been
front front of mind. Immigration kind of
bubbles underneath the surface. There
are other things out there that we don't
hear as as much about I think
particularly on the regulatory side of
things and there is all this excitement
about deregulation and its potential to
turbocharge productivity and make a lot
of these other problems go away. Let's
see what happens on that front, right?
Is is deregulation really just aimed at
crypto or is it a is it a broader story?
So that I think could be one of the
things that that serves as a catalyst
for at least short-term selloff
>> 2026. What are you worried about in
terms of policy uncertainty in
Washington? I think that going back to
the regulatory stuff, I think that's
important. I think that also, you know,
we are at this interesting sort of
geopolitical crossroads where the world
feels kind of scary and it's felt scary
for a while, but maybe it feels a little
bit scarier. Again, maybe I'm just, you
know, spending more time reading about
this stuff and so I'm just a little bit
more tuned in and a little bit more
worried. But I think you have a market
that especially with where valuations
are right now with so much uncertainty
from a policy perspective, so much
uncertainty from a macro perspective
because nobody knows what the heck's
going on, so much uncertainty from a a
rates perspective, you got a lot of
opportunity for little shocks to the
system. And I just think I I I'm
constructive on stocks. I think stocks
go up. I know stocks go up over the long
run. I think stocks go up probably over
the short run. But I think you may see a
lot of chop between now and whatever
that ultimate goals.
>> Do what Europeans do. Take August, Jack.
>> I'd love it.
>> It's good.
>> Jack Mandy at JP Morgan Asset
Management. Thank you, sir. What do they
say? It's always a bubble if you don't
own it. Something like that.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, look, I am
sympathetic though with this view that
people don't know how to value some sort
of moonshot, right? And that's
essentially what people are pouring
into. I'm sympathetic to that view. I'm
also sympathetic to the view of just
being sick of reading about the same
stories over and over again. So, Jack,
I'm sure a lot of people are nodding
along and saying, "I want to take the
rest of August off, too."
>> That sounds great to me. European style.
It's perfect. We should all sign up to
it.
>> All right. But you actually signed up to
the opposite. So you can explain why.
>> I'm slowly transitioning the whole of
this company to the European style way
of thinking in America.
>> Is that so? Are you the biggest load of
crap I've ever
>> Where are you next week, Lisa?
>> I am going to be enjoying my life
>> as you should. Hiking.
>> A week's vacation. There we go. Where
are you tomorrow?
>> I'm supposed to be off
>> on vacation. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Right here I'm working.
Hey, Yhara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump is hosting
Ukrainian President Silinski and
European allies in Washington today. The
goal is to set out terms for a potential
peace deal with Russia with the focus on
territorial concessions and Keev seeking
security guarantees. This after
President Trump and Russian President
Vladimir Putin met in Alaska with few
details on what exactly was discussed.
Meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of
Israelis took to the streets to protest
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's plan
to expand operations in the Gaza Strip.
Protesters are calling for the
government to negotiate freedom for the
remainder of the hostages to end the
war, even if it means leaving parts of
Hamas intact. Netanyahu suggesting the
demonstrations would embolden Hamas. And
President Trump is taking aim at mail
and ballots, posting on Truth Social
just earlier, I am going to lead a
movement to get rid of mail and ballots.
And also, while we're at it, highly
inaccurate and very expensive and
seriously controversial voting machines.
Trump says he will sign an executive
order that he says will help bring
honesty to the midterms next year.
Dester Bloomberg, Brief, John,
>> Yahara, thank you. This is why I love
financial markets. Don't have to talk
about those stories.
>> I 100% agree with you.
>> Thank you. And move on.
>> Yeah, though. That's exactly how I feel
about it. That's the reason why I love
financial markets. It's sort of the
collective view of what's matters. And
right now, that's not it.
>> What you always say, how about those
bonds?
>> Yeah.
>> How about those bonds?
>> Amen to that.
>> Up next, the morning calls plus Sherman
of Bernstein as the major retailers get
set to report earnings through the week
from New York. This is Blimp.
[Music]
There's clearly some um weakening in the
jobs market. What's important about it
is that it really undercuts uh this
argument that a lot of hawks are making
that the slowing in the jobs market is
largely a supply driven phenomena. I
mean, did we did we have a bunch of
college uh graduates swarming across the
border over the last 3 years? So, I do
think that, you know, demand is the
principal reason why labor market
conditions have slowed.
>> Neil Der of Renmak looking for a rate
cut in September and looking for
chairman pal maybe to lean into that
idea just a little bit. Equity futures
this morning negative by 0.1% as we
count you down to the opening bell.
That's your price action. Here are your
morning calls. First up, Stifel raising
its price target on Home Depot to 432,
saying expectations for lower rates are
driving out performance. Your second
call from UPS slashing its price target
on Lulu to 240, pointing to quote,
"lackluster sales momentum and tariff
related headwinds." And finally,
Evercore adding target to its tactical
outperform list, forecasting increased
earnings and near-term upside. Let's
stick with retail. Investors looking
ahead to a slew of retail earnings out
this week with consumer sentiment
sliding for the first time since April.
Joining us now to discuss is Bloomberg's
Anna Wong. Anna, welcome to the program.
It's good to see you. It's been too
long. I wanted to throw this at you. It
comes from Mike Dada of Roth, who said,
quote, "Overly restrictive monetary
policy would by definition lead to
inadequate nominal spending and income
growth." He went on to say, "We would
likely also see credit spreads widen and
inflation expectations fall, neither of
which is happening." That's a case not
to cut. Anna, would you take the other
side?
Well, I I think that the the issue right
now is that the tariffs whether they are
biting uh we haven't seen as tremendous
uh evidence that it's biting because
partly because firms still have been uh
stockpiling things and consumers are
just starting to feel the bite of the
tariffs and I think the retail earnings
later uh this week will show that um we
are starting to see just a little bit of
a ret u consumers hit from tariffs
>> and I just on the pre-tariff inventory.
They clearly frontloaded a lot of
product. How much of that are we still
working through?
>> Well, it depends on the sector. So, I
think for toys and for Home Depot and uh
the likes of Targets, they haven't
really frontloaded too much. It's just
that um they they have been trying to
raise prices and yet consumers are
pushing back slightly on it. But on the
other things such as sports equipment um
and audio equipments and photo
photography equipments, those seems to
be able to pass through tariffs quite uh
quite uh briskly and consumers are not
really pushing back on those because
consumers who are buying those stuff
tend to be the ones who are higher
income and are experiencing some income
positive um impact from the from the
stock market rally in the last couple of
months. And just finally, are you
expecting a sequence of cuts from
September? Is it the start of something
bigger?
>> We are not so sure that there's a cut in
September yet given that as I mentioned
the evidence of a tariff biting on the
economy is not yet really showing and uh
the uh demand side slowed down in the
labor market is just slightly faster
than supply side, not tremendously
faster. So I think our call is still for
a December rate cut. Anna Wong of
Bloomberg Economics. Anna, thank you.
Looking for December and not September.
Joining us now to discuss, Anisha
Sherman of Bernstein. Anisha, welcome to
the program. We had that conversation
just briefly there about product. How
much pre-tariff product do you think is
on the shelves of these companies, the
report this week?
>> There's not much left. Um, so there was
a lot of stockpiling in January to March
this year. Then there was a freeze when
the April tariffs came out. And then
there was a little bit more that came in
in May and June during the pause rates.
But the the flip side to stockpiling
product is having an inventory glut and
then having to clear it at massive
discounts. And this is exactly what the
retail sector went through two years ago
in 2022 when a lot of product was
brought in, stockpiled, and then 2022
and 23 saw aggressive clearance and a
lot of uh hurting hurting margins. And
retailers are wary of that because
they're primarily worried about demand.
And as your economist just said, we
haven't seen the demand impact yet of
price increases. We're going to see that
now in the next coming weeks. We've
already seen consumer sentiment dipping
and inflation expectations going up from
the Michigan survey work. So it seems to
suggest there should be a pullback in
demand. We haven't seen it yet. So
retailers are very nervous and they are
actually under buying. And I think
there's more of a risk of stockouts in
in the holiday period than there is of
an inventory over supply and pull
forward. Which raises the question
Anisha about pricing power and whether
we are going to see prices go up and
whether it could really start with
Walmart on Thursday since they are the
biggest non uh non-public employer in
America. Could you start to see an
indication that they're going to have to
raise prices?
>> They are doing it already. I mean we are
already seeing big retailers Walmart's
already said they're taking pricing up.
Many of the companies in my coverage
around um sporting goods, sports
apparel, footwear, um discretionary
retail, they've already started taking
pricing up. It hasn't been peanut
buttering a price increase on every
item. It's been very strategic and
careful and in trying not to throw off
consumers, but they have been doing it.
And so the question is, has that driven
some price elasticity yet? It perhaps
might be too early to tell, but also I
think where the indication of that will
be in how they guide for the next
quarter. Q3 started in August and so
we're already a few weeks into it. How
they guide for Q3 based on their
expectations of demand and price
elasticity will be really indicative of
what the trends are they're seeing at
the moment and how much we should worry
about this.
>> How much Nisha from the companies that
you cover? Do you get the sense that
people are trading down uh that
wealthier consumers are trying to uh cut
costs on the edge or is it the opposite?
are some of the discounters trying to
cater to wealthier consumers since they
continue to spend. They're the ones
supporting the American consumption
economy. Whereas lower income consumers
have really fallen behind in a mature
way.
>> We are seeing trade down behavior. So
retailers that offer a good value
proposition um you know mass retailers,
off-pric retailers are seeing those
traffic gains and the ones that are
losing are the ones in the middle. So if
you are premium or or high-end, you're
probably a little bit more resilient. We
saw Tapestry reporting last week. They
said coach growth in North America is
16%. Um so so there are there are
companies at the higher end that are
still doing fine. It's the middle that's
getting pulled in a little bit and and
this trade down is happening to value.
And so some of those value retailers
that report this week should see some
positive comps. So we are seeing some
trade down behavior. It's not a massive
move yet because as I said those price
increases haven't quite rolled out fully
yet, but they've definitely started. And
so I think that's the real-time data
we're looking at now. Anish, you said
those price increases, they've been
strategic when it comes to consumers.
Have they been strategic when it comes
to the White House? On Friday, there was
this Axios report that the White House
is keeping track of all these companies
and how much they're a part of the Trump
agenda. When these retailers report and
then get on the earnings call, how
careful do they need to be with their
words, thinking of an audience of one?
That's an excellent point. And they have
been. And if you look at how they've
been talking about it, they've been very
careful to talk about price increases.
and they've talked about it in a way
that is, you know, they're they're doing
it very carefully. They're being
strategic. They're continuing to offer
value. Um, they are not talking about it
very bullishly in the sense of kind of
slapping a price increase on everything
because that that is that is one of the
concerns they're concerned about. It's
not just the demand side. It's also the
implications of talking too aggressively
about a price increase.
>> Anisha, just finally, what's your top
pick right now? What are you advocating
for to clients?
>> I really like TJX. I think, you know, we
could see a dip if the if the earnings
are in line because, you know, if we're
expecting a rate cut, a safer name like
TJX could get sold off. If it does, I
would be buying into that dip. This is a
rockolid name into the second half. If
there's any moderation in consumer
demand, any pullback, any trade down,
this one should be resilient and should
be a beneficiary and a share gainer.
>> Alicia, you're one of the best.
Appreciate your time. Thank you. Alicia
Sherman there of Bernstein on the
retailers right now. We've seen the
decline, the deceleration in fast casual
restaurants. I'm thinking of Carver. I'm
thinking of Chipotle. I just wonder how
much of that is going to show up in
these numbers later this week.
>> Yeah. Especially cuz right now it really
is a tale of two different companies
when you have the winners and the
losers. For example, you have Chipotle
coming out and saying that their fried
chicken burrito didn't really work and
then you have McDonald's coming out and
saying that their happy meals were
great. So, put them together and
ultimately it's it's very difficult to
get.
>> Have you tried that? The fried chicken
burrito. Is that a thing? But I was
looking at some of the granular uh
explanations for why Chipotle
underperformed and that didn't overcome
the PR miss for not putting enough
chicken in the burrito bowl. That was
what I found.
>> I missed this. Was that actually a thing
that took place? People complain about
that.
>> Oh, they measured it. It became a social
media fad.
>> How did I miss this?
>> I have no idea. That seems like
something you
>> very online. I would pick up
>> Exactly. You absolutely would say, you
know, are we getting cheated out of our
chicken?
>> Because you don't eat Chipotle.
>> Exactly.
>> Sure. But I'm on Twitter.
>> I'm on X. But this was this was a very,
you know, very
>> vehement argument. It was something
people felt very strongly about. And
then on the flip side, you know, people
love happy meals and happy doom
scrolling every single day. And I I
managed to miss that story. All right.
Up next, Claudia S of New Century
Advisers on why September rate cut is
likely, but not in the bag. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers as the
rally continues for United Health. That
stock is up again by 2.7% so far this
morning. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Coming into Monday, close to all-time
highs on the S&P 500 and credit spreads
haven't been tighter on this side of the
century. Equity futures negative by a
tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq 100 down by
0.14.
In the bond market, looking ahead to
chairman Pal, bond yields just about
unchanged on a 2-year 374 on 10ens
giving up some of the rally on a 10-year
431 and the long end of the curve.
Brammo coming into sharper focus, I
would say, going into that meeting next
month. Yeah, a real question about how
much they can cut while keeping some
sort of cap on how high long yields can
go because ultimately everyone keeps
saying mortgage rates are too high,
lower rates. And it's sort of a
headscratch when you think that they
lowered rates by 100 basis points last
year and long-term rates, the mortgage
rates, they rose.
>> I'm not going to say this is a
conversation at the FMC right now, at
least not in public. But this is a
conversation in markets big time. Pretty
much everyone in fixed income is talking
about this. Could we see a repeat of
last year? And I go one step further.
The market conversation, as you know, is
about what the Fed might be able to do
about it with a new Fed chair a year
from now.
>> If you have somebody who truly is an
activist Fed chair, could they deploy
the balance sheet in a way of operation
twist or even more aggressively yield
curve control, which would be a pretty
jarring departure at a time where there
hasn't necessarily been a financial
crisis. The difference between twos and
30s this morning about 117 with 1 hour
away from the cash open, 60 minutes away
from the open and bound with your
morning movers. Here's Danny Burger. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. United Healthcare for a second
consecutive trading day. It looks like
it will be outperforming. It's up nearly
3% in the pre-market on Friday. It
rallied 12% after Berkshire Hathaway and
other hedge funds added to their share
in the latest hedge fund filing. Of
course, United Healthcare has been
beaten up this year. issues with poor
earnings and otherwise really weighing
down on the stock. We're also looking at
Target outperforming this morning,
rallying into its earnings on Wednesday.
It was up more than 1% that ebbing a
little bit just up about 9/10en of 1%.
Evercore adding it to its tactical
outperform list saying that the
expectations are reasonable for Target
and it sees no reason to downgrade them
in their earnings. Again, those come
August 20th. Finally, Novonortis, those
ADRs rallying in the pre-market session,
up 3%. Eli Lily. Those sink by about a
third of 1%. There we go. Got approval
to treat a rare liver disease in the US,
beating out its competitor Lily to do
so. John,
>> thank you. Appreciate it. Danny, thank
you very much. Danny Burgerer there with
your morning movers. A busy week of data
and Fed speak ahead with a highly
anticipated speech from Fed Chair J Pal
just days away. Looking ahead to it is
Mike McKe. Mike, welcome back to the
program. Good to see you in Jackson
Hole, Wyoming. What can we look forward
to later this week?
>> Well, that's what you're looking forward
to, John, later this week because there
isn't much going on other than we have a
bunch of housing numbers coming out this
week. Home builder confidence today and
we get existing home sales and housing
starts. And everybody knows that the
housing industry is in trouble right
now. But Wednesday, we get Fed minutes.
People will be looking back to see what
the Fed was thinking about a September
meeting. And then Friday, maybe J.
Powell tells us, I know you guys have
been talking about this all morning.
Will he give us some sort of hint as he
did last year when he said it was time
for the Fed to start cutting rates? Or
will he say we need to see more data? Or
will he touch the subject at all?
Because it's long been thought that he's
going to tell us something about the
Fed's new framework review and how the
Fed will look at doing the their
monetary policy decisions in the future.
Mike, a lot of people have priced in a
lot from this Federal Reserve starting
in September, beyond this year, going
into 2026. I've seen a lot of push back
over the past week, Mike, from Mike
Dada, from John Rying, from Mike Gapen
over at Morgan Standing. Mike Gapen said
if Chairp wants to retain optionality,
he will likely push back against market
pricing at Jackson Hole. Is that a
consideration, Mike, from the people
you've spoken to going into Friday?
It is a consideration and there are some
economists out here that we have talked
to the last couple of days and the
feeling is is that PAL does need
optionality because of what's happened
with the inflation numbers over the past
week or so and they don't want to go
into the meeting with the markets having
so firmly priced a cut that there would
be a big market disruption if they
didn't deliver. So my bet at this point
would be that he tries to walk a very
fine line without confirming anything
about September unless they are really
ready to go and with the data the way it
is it's hard to say that's the case.
>> Mike McKe looking forward to your
coverage sir as always. Michael thank
you. Things can change can change again
in early September when we get that
payroll reprint and a week later when we
hear the latest on CPI. That's why
Andrew Hollenhorst over at city just put
out a note saying that it is unlikely
that he is going to commit to a cut next
month because he is awaiting that jobs
and inflation data coming out uh in the
next few weeks. He might signal a
willingness but commit what's the
upside.
>> Let's stay on this topic. Claudia S of
New Century Advisers writing now is the
right time for the framework review. The
changes to the framework this week will
largely reverse key changes made 5 years
ago. Claudia joins us now for more.
Claudia, welcome to the program. Let's
just start with that speech on Friday
and the decision a month away. Just how
finely balanced are things at the
moment?
>> The Fed is facing a really difficult
decision. It's clear from the recent
data, particularly employment data, that
we have a dual mandate that is in
conflict and that that is the hardest
situation for the Fed to navigate. It's
something that they talk about in their
framework. I'm sure he'll talk about
that on Friday, but it's, you know, this
is this is tricky and and there's no
that's why they need the data. They need
each individually as members to think
about their outlooks, their forecast,
where does this land. So that's why I
think it's appropriate for for pal to
outline how tricky the decision is as
opposed to like trying to it's
September, it's October, like not get
into timing, just lay out what it is
that they're trying to deliberate on.
>> So Claudia, let's get into that. the
idea of the framework. There's on one
hand the 2% uh inflation target which
they already have talked about average
targeting and they're going to have to
illuminate on that and discuss whether
they want to actually increase that
target slightly. And then there's the
question of how they treat policy when
there is a conflict between the dual
mandate. So what are you expecting them
to come out with and how much could that
actually shift market expectations of
how much they'll cut?
>> Right. So there's going to be a lot
changing in the framework. I think if
you're wanting to understand current
policy, maybe you can set some of that
to the side because it reflects
assumptions that the pandemic overturned
and they're kind of catching up in their
strategies and tools. The pieces of the
framework that aren't changing on Friday
are some of the ones most important
right now. So the 2% target, PAL has
said repeatedly it was off the table for
this framework review. like they will
affirm the 2% target and oh let's all
remember we've been above 2% for more
than four years right so that setting is
important and then the piece that will
get a little tweak but probably remain
intact is how they deal with when the
when the mandates's intention they think
about how far do we expect this to get
off track and how long is it going to
take us to get back to the goal for each
the employment and the inflation mandate
and I think again if you look at the
data we have in hand and we think hard
about where inflation is and where it's
been the last four years, inflation
still comes up on top as the primary
concern of the Fed and thus calls for
the restrictive rate cuts. But it's a
very dynamic situation. New data comes
in on the labor market. The risks are,
you know, things could move pretty fast.
But like those two pieces of the
framework, I think are really really
important for like thinking about how
does the Fed go forward as they're
learning more about the economy. For
people who are listening to this and
think that it's an academic exercise and
coming up with different puzzles to put
things together, it's actually
incredibly important to understand
whether this is just an inherently
dovish Fed, whether this is a Fed that
wants to prolong the economic cycle for
as long as possible because it takes so
long to get jobs back when there is some
sort of huge wave of layoffs. Do you
expect them to sort of codify that type
of approach which has been the
assumption right now in markets for a
long time that they are more willing to
allow inflation to be higher for longer
in order to avoid that type of punitive
and longlasting uh reaction in labor
markets.
>> So I I'm somewhat concerned that the the
new framework is going to be read as
hawkish like not you know going to bat
for the labor market in the same sense.
I don't I don't think that's the right
interpretation. I think when the changes
were made to the framework five years
ago, we were in, you know, the years
after the global financial crisis, low
inflation, low interest rates,
unemployment rate was low, the Fed was
like trying to find tools to give some
more oomph to the economy to keep us
away from the zero lower bound. And so
there were changes made tolerating
unemployment that gets unusually low
because, you know, like that that could
be good for the labor market going
forward and it didn't cause inflation in
the past and allowing for a period of
time modestly above 2% inflation. Again,
that was all about giving the economy
some extra oomph. The last 5 years, the
problem has not been the extra oomph in
the economy. Like, we had inflation risk
that really came back. We had labor
shortages for a period of time. So,
there's going to be changes that reflect
some of the challenges the Fed has seen
in the last 5 years, but I would not see
that as a fundamental, oh, we need to,
you know, put less emphasis on the labor
market. It's just it's realizing that we
have some new challenges. I think we'll
see some more about like the supply side
of the labor market, structural changes
that we're seeing uh that could get
mentioned as well. So, it's a tricky
document to read, but I don't think one
should come at this and say, "Oh, the
Fed is, you know, going to leave the
labor market behind." I think it's just
really balancing the challenges they
face with inflation with the challenges
they face with the labor market.
>> Claudia, before spending a little bit
more time on the labor market, can I
just ask a perhaps obvious question for
people sitting at home? What's the value
of a framework review conducted by a
lame duck Fed chair?
>> Right. Right. So this is absolutely the
right time for the framework review. The
Fed started this pro this in 2012. They
started with a framework. It's it's
about transparency. It's a communication
tool. It is to clearly explain. It's a
short document. It's pretty dense, but
it's a short document to explain their
principles, their strategies, big
picture, high level. What are they
doing? They started doing the five-year
reviews in 2020. Again, this is about
transparency and accountability and
having processes that they can be judged
against. And it is true, this is in all
likelihood POW's last speech at Jackson
Hole as Fed chair. And yet, the
framework is not the Fed chair's
framework. It's the committee's
framework. It is an agreement that they
make together. And it it isn't about one
person. And also, this has been his
tenure the last 5 years. So, an exercise
in accountability in them saying, you
know, some of the assumptions we made in
2020, those didn't turn out to be the
right assumptions. We've got to make
some adjustments. So, it's a great time.
And above all, they told us 5 years ago
they were going to do this review.
There's a lot that's changed. This is
not a comfortable environment for the
Fed to be out in public.
>> True.
>> But they're doing the review and that is
so reassuring that we have a process
that's working as planned.
>> We'd love to hear your assumptions on a
few things and particularly the labor
market. So, let's start with that. You
know, the source of great division on
Wall Street at the moment, and that's
whether the step down in payroll's
growth is a factor because of what we've
seen in the economy, a cyclical turn, or
maybe a structural shift with what we've
seen on the supply side of the labor
market. Claudia, do you have a bias as
to which one it is right now?
>> It's almost certainly both. I think
there's a lot of supply side in there
right now and we can see this that
utilization numbers like the
unemployment rate has been basically
flat, right? So, we're not seeing the
unemployment rate climb as of yet. and
and also wage growth has not has not
really you know weakened and those would
be signs of its demand. Now there there
are absolutely risks in the labor market
and they're not hypothetical anymore. We
can point to data that slowing jobs
growth is a could be a real issue
and yet there are policies supply
policies that are are at play too. And
when we think about the Fed and the way
the Fed thinks about the labor market,
it's important to remember the Fed does
not fight the trend. It can't fight the
labor supply. It's trying to smooth out
the sharp movements in demand that you
know can cause you know a weakening in
the labor market. So it's uh it's a
tricky situation but I think there
really are signs that a good bit of this
is supply and it is it is almost exactly
the reverse of what we were trying to
sift through last year when we had the
surge in immigration.
>> Cl this makes it really really difficult
to communicate anything at the Federal
Reserve and given the title of this
year's get together is a labor market in
transition. Do you believe that the
chairman has to make a call here going
into September as to the dominant factor
he thinks is driving markets, the labor
market specifically at the moment?
>> I doubt that he'll give us the full
picture. I mean, it's one that's still
developing. Again, you know, I think the
by widening and not just saying, oh,
well, yes, labor market's weakening,
that job growth is too low. like he's
not going to make a definitive statement
that things are really, you know, you
know, the risks are really rising
rapidly. I think it'll lay out all the
different pieces that they're uh
grappling with. And what better thing
for them to spend a weekend grappling
with the research and talking to
scholars and people in the area than
structural changes in the labor market,
right? Like they need to be as on the
cutting edge as they can be as they sift
through the data and they decide the
policy. But they're not there yet. And
he's not going to frontr run the
committee and make the decision for
September. what possible good would that
do? He can be transparent about the
process, be honest about what they see
in the data, and you know, we'll we'll
see where this goes in terms of a
decision. I do expect him to affirm that
the next move will probably be a cut,
right? We're talking about timing here.
>> Y
>> we're not, you know, talking about, you
know, do they raise rates next? So, I
think, you know, we just keep it all in
context. We're not going to get the
answer that maybe investors are looking
for, but that's because the Fed is still
deliberating. Claudia S with the latest
on the labor market and the Federal
Reserve. Claudia, thank you. Claudia S
of New Century Advisers. He's not going
to get over his skis here. We've got two
more big data points to come in the next
month. He is facing down a very divided
Federal Reserve. How committed can he be
to a September call and we've heard a
lot of people on the program already
this morning saying probably a very
non-committal Fed chair on Friday?
>> Yeah, this was what I was trying to get
at. Not just that I was going to go
hiking, but that ultimately if you're
looking for a clean answer in Jackson
Hole, you're probably not going to get
it. you are going to get a framework and
then people will tell you whether it's
dovish or hawkish and you're going to
hear them then discuss that for the next
two weeks because there isn't a lot of
other news for them to discuss but
ultimately that is going to be the tenor
of discussion coming out of Jackson Hall
>> what's the source of the step down in
payrolls growth in the labor market
that's ultimately the key question for
me into Friday we haven't heard really
from the chairman since we had that
payroll report and that's going to be
what sets up this market going forward I
think
>> is this just an issue of people not
coming into the country as quickly or
even departing and not necessarily a
sign of real weakness under the hood and
that really is the key question for
policy going forward.
>> Remember that line announced protection
is worth a pound of cure. Cut now so you
don't have to cut even more later on. I
I wonder if that argument wins out in
September too.
>> At the same time what we just heard from
Claudia S really key that worked at a
time where we were combating low
inflation where we were combating the
zero bound. Does that work at a time
where inflation is very much of a
preeminent concern?
>> The Fed's bias is still to ease. How
constrained is that easing bias? We'll
have that debate through the week as we
anticipate that speak from speech from
Chairman Pal going into Friday. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. More troops are heading to
Washington. GOP governors from South
Carolina, West Virginia, and Ohio are
deploying additional National Guard
personnel to DC at the Trump
administration's request. West Virginia
said it would send up to 400, South
Carolina 200 in Ohio 150, adding to the
800 already mobilized in the nation's
capital to combat crime, according to
President Trump. Meanwhile, White House
trade adviser Peter Navaro is out with
some strong criticism of India's
purchases of Russian oil. In an FT
piece, he writes, "American consumers
buy Indian goods and India uses those
dollars to buy discounted Russian
crude." He went on to say, "India needs
to start acting like a strategic partner
of the US if it wants to be treated as
one." And got to mention this one again
cuz it was incredible. Scotty Shuffler
pulled off an incredible shot to win the
2025 BMW Championship yesterday. The
world's number one landed a wild chip in
on the 17th hole at Caves Valley in
Maryland. The twoshot win over Bobby
McIntyre was Shuffler's fifth of the
season and his 12th in the last two
years on the PGA Tour. Incredible.
That's your Bloomberg Reef. John,
>> ton of money as well. Yahara, thank you.
I think there's a $40 million purse at
the Tour Championship next week. So,
congrats Scotty on another big win. Up
next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. We'll catch up with
Mike McKe to look ahead to that big
Federal Reserve speech coming up on
Friday.
[Music]
I think the Fed should cut, but I think
they're going to cut for the wrong
reason. You don't want to have a
scenario where tech and tech capex slows
down and you can't hand the baton off to
that other part of the economy that's
struggling. If you keep rates this
restrictive for longer and you punish
those parts of the economy so severely,
you won't be able to hand off that
baton. You're going to have to cut.
You're moving in that direction. That
was Steve Schfferon of Federated Hermes
looking ahead to rate cuts from the
Federal Reserve. But he thinks this
economy is about to reacelerate and he's
still bullish this market. a market that
comes into a brand new trading week
close to all-time highs down just a
tenth of 1% on the S&P 500 down by a
similar amount on the NASDAQ 100. That's
the price action as we count you down to
the opening bout about 40 minutes away.
Here's the trading diary for the week
ahead. Later on today, President Trump
hosting Ukrainian President Vladimir
Zalinski and other European leaders at
the White House. Tomorrow, Home Depot
earnings. Wednesday, Fed Minutes Plus
results from Lowe's and Target. On
Thursday, another round of jobless
claims and earnings from Walmart. And on
Friday, it's the main event on Friday.
Remarks from Fed Chair Jay Pel in
Jackson Hole. Down in Jackson Hole,
Bloomberg's Mike McKe is back with us
for more. Mike, looking forward to a
conversation you're set to have through
the week with Governor Mickey Bowman.
One of the descents. Mike, how
aggressive is that descent going to be
in a month to come if they don't cut
interest rates?
Well, that's an interesting question
because she gave a speech at the end of
last week suggesting that she still
believes they should cut in September
and that they should cut three times
this year. So, she's still in that camp
of the job numbers are bad and that
suggested that the economy is slowing
down and the Fed should get ahead of it.
Uh Chris Waller has reaffirmed he's
still in kind of the same position. So,
we'll have those two. The open question
is would there be a possibility that
Steven Myron would be confirmed by then
and add a third descent? I I'm not sure
J Pal would care since he's going to be
leaving. Uh and at this point, the rest
of the Fed doesn't seem ready to cut
rates, but they're moving in that
direction if the data continue to show
weakness.
>> Mike, I just got this message as you and
I are talking. It comes from a Bloomberg
subscriber. They say this, "Cutting more
now so they don't have to do more in the
future would be irresponsible for the
Fed. It would create an even bigger
bubble, assuming there is one right now,
which would create another crisis when
it inevitably bursts. That's just a view
from Wall Street at the moment. Mike
Bisa asked a similar question. Equities
at all-time highs, credit spreads very
tight. From the market's perspective, is
this a market screaming for rate cuts?
>> The market is screaming for rate cuts
because the wish is always to the man.
But remember what happened in 2000 when
the Fed started cutting rates. uh we or
started uh cutting rates. We ended up
having a bubble burst and we had a
problem uh with the economy. Wasn't as
bad as some others, but the Fed is aware
of that and they're going to be very
cautious about what they do. They also
recognize that a lot of this is
psychological. They cut rates, the
markets go up, everybody's happy, but
the rate cut doesn't hit the economy
until sometime next year. So it's all a
question of managing expectations which
will make JPAL's speech even more
interesting.
>> Mike McKe looking forward to catching up
with you through the week and Lisa will
be on our way with TK in the next couple
of days. So looking forward to that too.
Michael, thank you sir. Financial
conditions versus economic conditions. I
think it was Neil Dut of Remack talking
about that a little bit earlier on this
morning. There's a key distinction to
make.
>> Yeah. Although at the same time what
happens is if you try to ease financial
monetary conditions then financial
conditions will just get that much
easier. So even though economic
conditions might be relatively tight
when it comes to lower inome consumers
and credit card debt, which is usually
pegged to the front end, it's not clear
that really it's going to help things as
much as it might hurt if you do cut
rates and foster asset prices just to go
that much higher.
>> We've both been to a few of these. This
one feels different. The president
really does loom large going into this
meeting. Now, of course, Chairman Pal is
very unlikely to address that head on,
but it's something that looms large for
a lot of us all to think about at that
particular get together. I'll give you
this anecdote. Earlier this sum earlier
this year in the at the IMF spring
meetings, there was a talk behind closed
doors where Jay Powell spoke to other
central bankers from around the world
and reiterated the importance of the
independence of the central bank and
there was a standing ovation for a
prolonged period of time according to a
number of sources who were in the room
and it just underscores how they're not
going to come out and talk about it
publicly but it is very much there
present in their minds. But also, this
is in a sense a legacy speech for Jay
Powell. This is his final Jackson Hole
before he has to give up his
chairmanship. And Mike McKe just said it
there. Why does he care? He's on his way
out. Well, is he? He has yet to tell the
president or the Treasury Secretary that
he is going to give up his governor seat
when his chairmanship ends.
>> Conducting a framework review as a lame
duck Fed chair. That's quite a
challenging moment.
>> Yeah. Although, as we heard from Claudia
Som, it also might be a chance for him
to say, "Look, this is what we got wrong
and this is what we got right. This is
how I understand the record. I'm gonna
define my record before somebody else
does it for me.
>> I think they're already trying to do it
for him.
>> I am positive they are, so might as well
get his view in the and throw it in the
ring.
>> He's going to try at least that coming
Friday. This coming Friday, that's the
main event for financial markets
worldwide. Equities doing okay to kick
off a trading week. A quiet start, as
I've said, to a very, very busy trading
week. Futures down by about a tenth of
1% on the S&P. Coming up tomorrow, the
coverage continues. We'll catch up with
Brian Levit of Invesco. We speak to
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Words Priz
of JP Morgan Asset Management and Jim
Karen of Morgan Stanley. Equities close
to all-time highs. Credit spreads are
tight, tight, tight, and we're having a
conversation about the Federal Reserve
delivering rate cuts next month. From
New York City, thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]